# Double Squares A doublesquare number is an integer X which can be expressed as the sum of two perfect squares. For example, is a doublesquare because . Your task in this problem is, given X, determine the number of ways in which it can be written as the sum of two squares. For example, can only be written as we dont count as being different. On the other hand, can be written as or as . Input You should first read an integer N, the number of test cases. The next N lines will contain N values of X. Constraints le X le le N le Output For each value of X, you should output the number of ways to write X as the sum of two squares.# Peg Game At the arcade, you can play a simple game where a ball is dropped into the top of the game, from a position of your choosing. There are a number of pegs that the ball will bounce off of as it drops through the game. Whenever the ball hits a peg, it will bounce to the left with probability . and to the right with probability . The one exception to this is when it hits a peg on the far left or right side, in which case it always bounces towards the middle. When the game was first made, the pegs where arranged in a regular grid. However, its an old game, and now some of the pegs are missing. Your goal in the game is to get the ball to fall out of the bottom of the game in a specific location. Your task is, given the arrangement of the game, to determine the optimal place to drop the ball, such that the probability of getting it to this specific location is maximized. The image below shows an example of a game with five rows of five columns. Notice that the top row has five pegs, the next row has four pegs, the next five, and so on. With five columns, there are four choices to drop the ball into indexed from . Note that in this example, there are three pegs missing. The top row is row , and the leftmost peg is column , so the coordinates of the missing pegs are , and ,. In this example, the best place to drop the ball is on the far left, in column , which gives a chance that it will end in the goal. x.x.x.x.x x.x.x x.x.x.x x.x.x x.x.x.x.x G x indicates a peg, . indicates empty space. Input You should first read an integer N, the number of test cases. Each of the next N lines will then contain a single test case. Each test case will start with integers R and C, the number of rows and columns R will be odd. Next, an integer K will specify the target column. Finally, an integer M will be followed by M pairs of integer ri and ci, giving the locations of the missing pegs. Constraints le N le le R,C le The top and bottom rows will not have any missing pegs. Other parameters will all be valid, given R and C Output For each test case, you should output an integer, the location to drop the ball into, followed by the probability that the ball will end in columns K, formatted with exactly six digits after the decimal point round the last digit, dont truncate. Notes The input will be designed such that minor rounding errors will not impact the output i.e. there will be no ties or near up to E ties, and the direction of rounding for the output will not be impacted by small errors.# Studious Student Youve been given a list of words to study and memorize. Being a diligent student of language and the arts, youve decided to not study them at all and instead make up pointless games based on them. One game youve come up with is to see how you can concatenate the words to generate the lexicographically lowest possible string. Input As input for playing this game you will receive a text file containing an integer N, the number of word sets you need to play your game against. This will be followed by N word sets, each starting with an integer M, the number of words in the set, followed by M words. All tokens in the input will be separated by some whitespace and, aside from N and M, will consist entirely of lowercase letters. Output Your submission should contain the lexicographically shortest strings for each corresponding word set, one per line and in order. Constraints le N le le M le le all word lengths le # Diversity Number Lets call a sequence of integers a, a, ., aN almost monotonic if first K elements are nondecreasing sequence and last NK elements are nonincreasing sequence aleale.leaK and aKgeaKge.geaN. The diversity number of a sequence a, a, ., aN is the number of possible sequences b, b,., bN for which lebiltai and all of the numbers b, b,., bN are different. The diversity number of an empty sequence is . You need to find the sum of the diversity numbers of all almost monotonic subsequences of a sequence. Since this number can be very large, find it modulo ,. A subsequence is a sequence that can be obtained from another sequence by deleting some elements without changing the order of the remaining elements. Two sequences are considered different if their lengths differ or there is at least one position at which they differ. Input The first line of the input file consists of a single number T, the number of test cases. Each test case consists of a number M, the number of elements in a sequence, followed by M numbers n, elements of some sequence note that this sequence is not necessarily almost monotonic. All tokens are whitespaceseparated Constraints T le M, n le Output Output T lines, with the answer to each test case on a single line.# Turn on the Lights A simple game consists of a grid of RxC buttons. Each button will be either lighted, or unlighted. Whenever you push a button, the state of that button, and its up to four neighbors will toggle lighted buttons will become unlighted and unlighted buttons will become lighted. Note that the neighbors do not wrap and thus a corner button has only two neighbors, while an edge buttons has three. In this problem you will be given an initial configuration of the buttons. Your task is to push the right buttons so that, when you are done, all of the lights are turned on. If there are multiple ways to do this, you should determine the minimum number of buttons pushes that it can be done in. Input You will first read an integer N the number of test cases. For each test case, you will read two integers R and C. This will be followed by R whitespaceseparated tokens, each containing C characters. A X indicates a lighted button, while a . indicates an unlighted button. Constraints N le R,C le Output For each test case you should output the minimum number of button presses required to turn on all the lights. If there is no way to do this, you should output .# Wine Tasting A group of Facebook employees just had a very successful product launch. To celebrate, they have decided to go wine tasting. At the vineyard, they decide to play a game. One person is given some glasses of wine, each containing a different wine. Every glass of wine is labelled to indicate the kind of wine the glass contains. After tasting each of the wines, the labelled glasses are removed and the same person is given glasses containing the same wines, but unlabelled. The person then needs to determine which of the unlabelled glasses contains which wine. Sadly, nobody in the group can tell wines apart, so they just guess randomly. They will always guess a different type of wine for each glass. If they get enough right, they win the game. You must find the number of ways that the person can win, modulo . Input The first line of the input is the number of test cases, N. The next N lines each contain a test case, which consists of two integers, G and C, separated by a single space. G is the total number of glasses of wine and C is the minimum number that the person must correctly identify to win. Constraints N le G le le C le G Output For each test case, output a line containing a single integer, the number of ways that the person can win the game modulo .# Chess After decades of shadowy demonstrations and delays from the games maker, Chess has finally been released. You waited in line all night to be one of the first to purchase an example of the hot sequel to the classic original, and now you are finally getting a chance to open up your new investment and take a look inside. What you find is slightly puzzling in addition to the traditional pieces, the game has been expanded to contain a number of pieces that are not actually original. The bestknown piece that has been added to the game is the nightrider. The nightrider can make any number of knight moves in a single direction, i.e., its offset from its initial position will be m in one dimension and m in the other for some nonzero integer m. Like other sliding pieces, if one of the knight moves would cause it to take another piece it is not able to traverse beyond that point The archbishop is also part of Chess . The archbishop can simply make any move that a knight or bishop could legally make. The strangest new piece is the kraken. The kraken can move to any square on the board, regardless of the position of any other pieces, including its own current position. You dont feel like reading the manual to learn about how the new pieces fit into the standard chess opening positions, so instead you place some of the pieces randomly on the board. The game youve decided to play is simply to count how many pieces on the board are currently being threatened. A piece is threatened if another piece is able to move into its cell and take it note that if the kraken moves into its own cell it does not take itself. Input Your input file will consist of a single integer N followed by N test cases. Each case will consist of, all separated by whitespace, an integer P followed by the identities and positions of P Chess pieces. Pieces are described by a single character C to denote their type see specification below followed by two integers R and F, the based rank and file, respectively, of the piece. Youve decided to ignore the colors of the pieces in this game. The color of the pieces will not be reflected in the input and so cannot affect your output. To make room for the new pieces, the Chess board is a by grid. No specified pieces will fall outside the board, and no two pieces will occupy the same position. The types of pieces will be specified as follows, and no entries not present in this table will appear on the board Piece Abbreviation King K Queen Q Rook R Bishop B Knight N Nightrider S Archbishop A Kraken E Output Output a single integer, the number of threatened pieces on the board, for each test case separated by whitespace. Constraints N le P le le R, F le C will be one of K, Q, R, B, N, S, A, E# Diminishing Circle N people are standing in circle and play following game they start with the first person, count K people clockwise, then the Kth person leaves the circle and the process starts all over, using the person clockwise of the last person removed as the starting point. For example when N and K people would leave in following order , , , , Given N and K, find who wins the game if counting starts with person . Person indices are based. The last person who is left is declared the winner. Input The input consists of a single integer T, the number of test cases. This is followed by T pairs of numbers N and K, all separated by whitespace. Output Print T whitespaceseparated integers, the indices for each test case of the winner of the game. Constraints T le N le le K le # Slot Machine Hacker You recently befriended a guy who writes software for slot machines. After hanging out with him a bit, you notice that he has a penchant for showing off his knowledge of how the slot machines work. Eventually you get him to describe for you in precise detail the algorithm used on a particular brand of machine. The algorithm is as follows int getRandomNumber secret secret return secret This function returns an integer number in , each digit represents one of ten symbols that appear on a wheel during a particular machine state. secret is initially set to some nonnegative value unknown to you. By observing the operation of a machine long enough, you can determine value of secret and thus predict future outcomes. Knowing future outcomes you would be able to bet in a smart way and win lots of money. Input The first line of the input contains positive number T, the number of test cases. This is followed by T test cases. Each test case consists of a positive integer N, the number of observations you make. Next N tokens are integers from to describing your observations. Output For each test case, output the next values that would be displayed by the machine separated by whitespace. If the sequence you observed cannot be produced by the machine your friend described to you, print Wrong machine instead. If you cannot uniquely determine the next values, print Not enough observations instead. Constraints T le N le Tokens in the input are no more than characters long and contain only digits .# NFactorful A number is called nfactorful if it has exactly n distinct prime factors. Given positive integers a, b, and n, your task is to find the number of integers between a and b, inclusive, that are nfactorful. We consider to be factorful. Input Your input will consist of a single integer T followed by a newline and T test cases. Each test cases consists of a single line containing integers a, b, and n as described above. Output Output for each test case one line containing the number of nfactorful integers in a, b. Constraints T le a le b le le n le # Polynomial Factoring A polynomial in x of degree D can be written as aDxD aDxD . ax a In some cases, a polynomial of degree D can also be written as the product of two polynomials of degrees D and D, where D D D. For instance, x x x x In this problem, you will be given two polynomials, denoted F and G. Your task is to find a polynomial H such that G H F, and each ai is an integer. Input You should first read an integer N le , the number of test cases. Each test case will start by describing F and then describe G. Each polynomial will start with its degree le D le , which will be followed by D integers, denoting a, a, . , aD, where le ai le . Each polynomial will have a nonzero coefficient for its highest order term. Output For each test case, output a single line describing H. If H has degree DH, you should output a line containing DH integers, starting with a for H. If no H exists such that GHF, you should output no solution.# Risky Slide Being a confident and accomplished programmer, you are naturally widely considered to be one of the preeminent dancers of your generation. Unfortunately this means your dancing is under considerable public scrutiny, and your critics are often quick to point out when your moves seem to be getting stale. To prevent such a debacle, you are working on a new maneuver youre calling the risky slide. You havent worked out some of the details like flourishes or vocalizations that will accompany the risky slide, but you do know that the core of the move is a standing slide across a stretch of dance floor. You need to perfect the execution of your slide, so you are looking for the ideal spot in your apartment to practice. You live a fairly ascetic lifestyle, so your apartment is a simple rectangle with a tiled floor and no furniture or contents of any kind. You will practice the risky slide by starting out standing at the edge of some tile and running parallel to one of the walls of the apartment, and at the transition between some pair of tiles you will go from running to sliding. Your goal is to achieve the longest possible slide, with distance measured as the number of tiles you completely traverse during the slide partial traversal doesnt count. This would be an easy problem, but the style of the tiles in your apartment introduces a complication. Each tile has a particular stickiness that affects both how well you can run and how well you can slide on it. Each tile has a stickiness rating between and , inclusive. The stickiness affects your movement as follows Running across a tile with stickiness s grants s units of kinetic energy. For example, a tile with stickiness is not slippery at all and you can run across it very efficiently, whereas a tile with stickiness is quite slippery and does not help you increase your kinetic energy much as you run across it. Sliding across a tile with stickiness s robs you of s units of kinetic energy. If a tile would reduce your kinetic energy below , you stop sliding somewhere in the middle of the tile and fail to traverse it completely. Input Your input will consist of a single integer N followed by a newline and N test cases. Each case begins with a line containing integers R and C, the number of rows and columns, respectively, of tiles in your apartment. This will be followed by R lines, each containing a string of length C, describing the layout of the tiles in your apartment. The value of each element in these strings is the stickiness as defined above of the corresponding tile. Output Output, for each test case and separated by newlines, the maximal possible number of complete tiles that you can traverse in a single slide through your apartment. Constraints N le le R, C le Characters representing tiles will all be between and , inclusive.# Bonus Assignments You are in charge of a group of N workers, and you want to pay a onetime bonus to each of them. The bonus for each worker is an integer number of dollars. According to state law the bonus of the worker who gets the least should be no less than A, but no more than B. To motivate your staff, the bonus of the worker who gets the most should be no less than C and no more than D. Workers tend to spend their entire bonuses on HackerCola. Each of them buys bottles of HackerCola until he runs out of money, i.e., until amount of money left is less than the price of one bottle. Workers are very individualistic and each of them uses his own money only, so they never pool to buy HackerCola. Unfortunately you dont remember the price of one bottle of HackerCola, but you are pretty sure that it is an integer number of dollars greater than . Since you care about the working class you want to assign bonuses to workers in such a way that there would be at least one worker who would have some money left after buying as much HackerCola as possible regardless of the price of the bottle. Calculate the number of possible bonus assignments that fit this constraint. Two bonus assignments are different if at least one worker gets different bonus in each assignment. Since the answer can be large, calculate it modulo ,. Input The first line of the input contains one integer T, the number of test cases. Each of the next T lines consists of integers separated by spaces N, A, B, C and D. Output For each of the test cases print a line containing number of possible bonus assignments modulo ,. Constraints T le N le le A le B le le C le D le # Scotts New Trick Little Scott recently learned how to perform arithmetic operations modulo some prime number P. As a training set he picked two sequences a of length N and b of length M, generated in the following way aA aA aiai A aiA A mod P, for i.N bB bB bjbj B bj B B mod P, for j.M Now he wants to find the number of pairs i, j, where le i le N and le j le M, such that ai bj mod P lt L, for given number L. He asked you to do the same to help him check his answers. Input The first line of input file consists of a single number T, the number of test cases. Each test consists of three lines. The first line of a test case contains two integers prime number P and positive integer L. The second line consists of six nonnegative integers N, A, A, A, A, A. Likewise, the third line contains six nonnegative integers M, B, B, B, B, B. Output Output T lines, with the answer to each test case on a single line. Constraints T le P lt , P is prime le L le P le N, M le , le A, A, A, A, A, B, B, B, B, B lt P # Studious Student II Youve decided to make up another string manipulation game instead of paying attention in class. Starting with a string composed entirely of a and b characters, you will iteratively apply the following operation For a string s of length len, choose indices i and j, where i lt j lt len. Choose a character c that occurs in the substring which begins at zerobased index i of string s and extends to the index j inclusive. Replace all characters in s with zerobased index in i, j with a single instance of c to generate s. Set s to be s. As an example of sequence of operations consider the string abba. Some of the possible transformations are shown below. The substring being replaced is enclosed in square brackets. abba rarr aa rarr a abba rarr aa rarr a abba rarr abb rarr a abba rarr aba The goal of your game is simple calculate how many different sequences of operations you can perform. As this number can be very large, you decide to calculate it modulo ,. Two sequences of operations are considered different if they differ in length, or if they differ in at least one position. Note that the order of operations is a factor. The empty sequence of operations should be counted as well. Operations can be considered triples of i, j, c as described above, and these are the only values used when computing whether two operations are the same. Input The first line of the input file contains a single number N, the number of test cases. Each test case is written on a separate line, and contains a string consisting of letters a and b. Output Output N lines, with the answer to each test case on a single line. Constraints N le len le s only contains the lowercase characters a and b.# Alien Game Aliens on the Unknown planet have a tradition of playing a game called Loiten. It is played by two players who alternate turns. There are N buckets with apples standing in one line in front of the players. They are numbered from left to right with integers starting from . In one turn a player can select one of the buckets, which is not the first and not the last and has a positive number of apples in it, and move all of that buckets apples to the bucket adjacent to the left and at the same time move all of them to the bucket adjacent to the right. Thats right, the number of apples can be negative as it is a really strange planet. Thus, if there are consecutive buckets with the number of apples being x, y, z, then you can perform the move if y is greater than zero. The resulting capacity of the buckets will be as follows xy, y, zy. The first player who cant make a move loses. You happen to know one of the aliens from the Unknown planet, named Popo. He is a very good Loiten player, and has reached the Loiten Finals. On the day prior to the game, he found out the number of apples in each of the buckets. Unfortunately, his memory is not that good, and he cant remember the number of apples in the Pth bucket. He just remembers that it is a number with absolute value not greater than F. Now, he is asking you to help him to calculate his chances. The players at the Finals are so good that they only make optimal moves to maximize their chance of winning. If neither player can win, the game is considered a draw. You are to find the number of possible apple counts for the bucket with an unknown number of apples where Popo will win. Popo is also sure that he is the one to make the first turn. Input The first line of the input file consists of a single number T, the number of test cases. Each test case begins with a line containing two integers N, the number of buckets and P, the number of the bucket with the unknown amount of apples. It is followed by a line containing N integers, the numbers of apples in the corresponding buckets. The Pth number on this line is the positive integer F and corresponds to the constraint on the number of apples in the Pth bucket. Output Output T lines, with the answer to each test case on a single line, the number of possible values for unknown bucket. Constraints T le P le N le ,. le F le ,. The number of apples in each bucket at the start of the game has an absolute value not greater than ,.# Party Time Youre throwing a party for your friends, but since your friends may not all know each other, youre afraid a few of them may not enjoy your party. So to avoid this situation, you decide that youll also invite some friends of your friends. But who should you invite to throw a great party Luckily, you are in possession of data about all the friendships of your friends and their friends. In graph theory terminology, you have a subset G of the social graph, whose vertices correspond to your friends and their friends excluding yourself, and edges in this graph denote mutual friendships. Furthermore, you have managed to obtain exact estimates of how much food each person in G will consume during the party if he were to be invited. You want to choose a set of guests from G. This set of guests should include all your friends, and the subgraph of G formed by the guests must be connected. You believe that this will ensure that all of your friends will enjoy your party since any two of them will have something to talk about. In order to save money, you want to pick the set of guests so that the total amount of food needed is as small as possible. If there are several ways of doing this, you prefer one with the fewest number of guests. The peoplevertices in your subset G of the social graph are numbered from to N . Also, for convenience your friends are numbered from to F , where F is the number of your friends that you want to invite. You may also assume that G is connected. Note again that you are not yourself represented in G. Input The first line of the input consists of a single number T, the number of test cases. Each test case starts with a line containing three integers N, the number of nodes in G, F, the number of friends, and M, the number of edges in G. This is followed by M lines each containing two integers. The ith of these lines will contain two distinct integers u and v which indicates a mutual friendship between person u and person v. After this follows a single line containing N spaceseparated integers with the ith representing the amount of food consumed by person i. Output Output T lines, with the answer to each test case on a single line by itself. Each line should contain two numbers, the first being the minimum total quantity of food consumed at a party satisfying the given criteria and the second the minimum number of people you can have at such a party. Constraints T le F le F le N le N le N le M le N N G is connected, and contains no selfloops or duplicate edges. For each person, the amount of food consumed is an integer between and , both inclusive.# Safest Place While en route to the th annual Galactic Dance Party on Risa, you find yourself unceremoniously yanked out of hyperspace and, according to your sensors, surrounded by N space bombs. Apparently caught in a trap laid out by some dastardly and unknown enemy, and unable to return to hyperspace, you must find the safest place in the vicinity to weather the detonation of all the space bombs. Your unseen opponent has constructed a cubeshaped space anomaly that you are unable to leave, so your options are limited to points within that cube. Before the bombs explode all simultaneously, you have just enough time to travel to any integer point in the cube , , , both inclusive. You must find the point with the maximum distance to the nearest bomb, which your captains intuition tells you will be the safest point. Input The first line of the input file consists of a single number T, the number of test cases. Each test consists of single number N, the number of bombs, followed by N integers describing the positions of the bombs. Output Output T integers, one per test case each on its own line, representing the square of distance to the nearest bomb from the safest point in the cube. Constraints T le N le All bombs coordinates will be in , both inclusive.# Alphabet Soup Alfredo Spaghetti really likes soup, especially when it contains alphabet pasta. Every day he constructs a sentence from letters, places the letters into a bowl of broth and enjoys delicious alphabet soup. Today, after constructing the sentence, Alfredo remembered that the Facebook Hacker Cup starts today Thus, he decided to construct the phrase HACKERCUP. As he already added the letters to the broth, he is stuck with the letters he originally selected. Help Alfredo determine how many times he can place the word HACKERCUP sidebyside using the letters in his soup. Input The first line of the input file contains a single integer T the number of test cases. T lines follow, each representing a single test case with a sequence of uppercase letters and spaces the original sentence Alfredo constructed. Output Output T lines, one for each test case. For each case, output Case t n, where t is the test case number starting from and n is the number of times the word HACKERCUP can be placed sidebyside using the letters from the sentence. Constraints lt T le Sentences contain only the uppercase letters AZ and the space character Each sentence contains at least one letter, and contains at most , characters, including spaces # Auction You have encountered a new fancy online auction that offers lots of products. You are only interested in their price and weight. We shall say that product A is strictly preferred over product B if A costs less than B and is not heavier they may be of equal weight or if A weighs less and is not more expensive they can have equal price. We shall call a product A a bargain if there is no product B such that B is better than A. Similarly, we shall call a product C a terrible deal if there exists no product D such that C is better than D. Note that according to our definitions, the same product may be both a bargain and a terrible deal Only wacky auctioneers sell such products though. One day you wonder how many terrible deals and bargains are offered. The number of products, N, is too large for your humansized brain though. Fortunately, you discovered that the auction manager is terribly lazy and decided to sell the products based on a very simple pseudorandom number generator. If product i has price Pi and weight Wi, then the following holds for product i Pi APi B mod M for all i .N Wi CWi D mod K for all i .N You carefully calculated the parameters for the generator P, W, M, K, A, B, C and D. Now you want to calculate the number of terrible deals and bargains on the site. Input The first line of the input file contains a single integer T the number of test cases. T lines follow, each representing a single test case with spaceseparated integers N, P, W, M, K, A, B, C and D. Output Output T lines, one for each test case. For each case, output Case t a b, where t is the test case number starting from , a is the number of terrible deals and b is the number of bargains. Constraints le T le le N le le M, K le le P le M le W le K le A,B,C,D le # Billboards We are starting preparations for Hacker Cup really early. Our first step is to prepare billboards to advertise the contest. We have text for hundreds of billboards, but we need your help to design them. The billboards are of different sizes, but are all rectangular. The billboard widths and heights are all integers. We will supply you with the size in inches and the text we want printed. We want you to tell us how large we can print the text, such that it fits on the billboard without splitting any words across lines. Since this is to attract hackers like yourself, we will use a monospace font, meaning that all characters are of the same width e.g. l and m take up the same horizontal space, as do space characters. The characters in our font are of equal width and height, and there will be no additional spacing between adjacent characters or adjacent rows. If you print a word on one line and print the next word on the next line, you do not need to print a space between them. Lets say we want to print the text Facebook Hacker Cup on a x billboard. If we use a font size of per character, then we can print Facebook on the first line, Hacker Cup on the second and on the third. The widest of the three lines is Hacker Cup, which is wide. There are three lines, so the total height is . We cannot go any larger. Input The first line of the input file contains a single integer T the number of test cases. T lines follow, each representing a single test case in the form W H S. W and H are the width and height in inches of the available space. S is the text to be written. Output Output T lines, one for each test case. For each case, output Case t s, where t is the test case number starting from and s is the maximum font size, in inches per character, we can use. The size must be an integral number of inches. If the text does not fit when printed at a size of , then output . Constraints le T le le W, H le , The text will contain only lowercase letters az, uppercase letters AZ, digits and the space character The text will not start or end with the space character, and will never contain two adjacent space characters The text in each case contains at most , characters # Checkpoint You are racing on a D lattice grid starting from the origin , towards a goal M,N where M and N are positive integers such that lt M le N. There is a checkpoint thats neither on the origin nor on the goal with coordinates m,n such that le m le M and le n le N. You must clear the checkpoint before you reach the goal. The shortest path takes T M N steps. At each point, you can move to the four immediate neighbors at a fixed speed, but since you dont want to lose the race, you are only going to take either a step to the right or to the top. Even though there are many ways to reach the goal while clearing the checkpoint, the race is completely pointless since it is relatively easy to figure out the shortest route. To make the race more interesting, we change the rules. Instead of racing to the same goal M,N, the racers get to pick a goal x,y and place the checkpoint to their liking so that there are exactly S distinct shortest paths. For example, given S , consider the following two goal and checkpoint configurations Placing the checkpoint at , and the goal at ,. There are ways to get from the origin to the checkpoint depending on when you move to the right. Once you are at the checkpoint, there is only one way to reach the goal with minimal number of steps. This gives a total of distinct shortest paths, and takes T steps. However, you can do better. Placing the checkpoint at , and the goal at ,. There are two ways to get from the origin to the checkpoint depending on whether you move to the right first or later. Similarly, there are two ways to get to the goal, which gives a total of distinct shortest paths. This time, you only need T steps. As a Hacker Cup racer, you want to figure out how to place the checkpoint and the goal so that you cannot possibly lose. Given S, find the smallest possible T, over all possible checkpoint and goal configurations, such that there are exactly S distinct shortest paths clearing the checkpoint. Input As input for the race you will receive a text file containing an integer R, the number of races you will participate in. This will be followed by R lines, each describing a race by a single number S. Output Your submission should contain the smallest possible length of the shortest path, T for each corresponding race, one per line and in order. Constraints le R le le S le ,# Recover the Sequence Merge sort is one of the classic sorting algorithms. It divides the input array into two halves, recursively sorts each half, then merges the two sorted halves. In this problem merge sort is used to sort an array of integers in ascending order. The exact behavior is given by the following pseudocode function mergesortarr n arr.length if n and arr.length if arr A very important permutation of the integers through N was lost to a hard drive failure. Luckily, that sequence had been sorted by the above algorithm and the debug sequence of s and s was recorded on a different disk. You will be given the length N of the original sequence, and the debug sequence. Recover the original sequence of integers. Input The first line of the input file contains an integer T. This is followed by T test cases, each of which has two lines. The first line of each test case contains the length of the original sequence, N. The second line contains a string of s and s, the debug sequence produced by merge sort while sorting the original sequence. Lines are separated using Unixstyle line endings. Output To avoid having to upload the entire original sequence, output an integer checksum of the original sequence, calculated by the following algorithm function checksumarr result for i to arr.length result result arri mod return result Constraints le T le le N le , Examples In the first example, N is and the debug sequence is . The original sequence was or . The debug sequence tells us that the first number was smaller than the second so we know the sequence was . The checksum is . In the second example, N is and the debug sequence is . This time the original sequence is . In the third example, N is and the debug sequence is . The original sequence is .# Squished Status Some engineers got tired of dealing with all the different ways of encoding status messages, so they decided to invent their own. In their new scheme, an encoded status message consists of a sequence of integers representing the characters in the message, separated by spaces. Each integer is between and M, inclusive. The integers do not have leading zeroes. Unfortunately they decided to compress the encoded status messages by removing all the spaces Your task is to figure out how many different encoded status messages a given compressed status message could have originally been. Because this number can be very large, you should return the answer modulo xfacebc in hex. For example, if the compressed status message is it might have originally been nbsp, or it might have originally been . The compressed status messages are between and characters long, inclusive. Due to database corruption, a compressed status may contain sequences of digits that could not result from removing the spaces in an encoded status message. Input The input begins with a single integer, N, the number of compressed status messages you must analyze. This will be followed by N compressed status messages, each consisting of an integer M, the highest character code for that database, then the compressed status message, which will be a string of digits each in the range to , inclusive. All tokens in the input will be separated by some whitespace. Output For each of the test cases numbered in order from to N, output Case i followed by a single integer containing the number of different encoded status messages that could be represented by the corresponding compressed sequence modulo . If none are possible, output a . Constraints le N le le M le le length of encoded status le # Monopoly In a certain business sector there are currently N small companies, each having just a single employee. These employees are numbered through N. The business sector is about to be transformed into a monopoly. This will happen through a series of mergers, until there is only one company. A single merger involves two companies. In a merger, the president of one company becomes the direct report of the president of the other company, preserving the rest of the hierarchies of both companies. You will be given the descriptions of all mergers. Depending on how they are performed which of the two presidents involved becomes the president of the new company, the hierarchy can of the final company can take different shapes. We want the hierarchy of the final company to be as shallow as possible. The task is to find the smallest possible number of levels in the final hierarchy. There is also a limit D on the number of direct reports any employee can have. Because of this limit, there may be only one way to accomplish a certain merger, or it might even be impossible. However, there will always be some way to accomplish all the mergers. Input The first line contains the number of test cases T. Each test case starts with a blank line. The next line contains two integers, N and D. Each of the following N lines describes a single merger, with two integers between and N. These are the employees whose companies are merging. The two employees will never already be part of the same company. The mergers must be performed in the order in which they are given. Constraints le T le le N le , le D le , The input test cases will be such that it is possible to accomplish all mergers. Output For each of the test cases numbered in order from to T, output Case i followed by a single integer, the smallest number of levels in the final hierarchy. Examples In the first example, we have N and D. The first merger happens between the companies of employees and . In the resulting company we can have employee as the president with as his report, or vice versa. Next this company merges with the company of employee . If we have employee become the president, the hierarchy will be a chain or . If or become the president, that president will have the other two employees as direct reports. This last hierarchy has two levels.# Road Removal You are given a network with N cities and M bidirectional roads connecting these cities. The first K cities are important. You need to remove the minimum number of roads such that in the remaining network there are no cycles that contain important cities. A cycle is a sequence of at least three different cities such that each pair of neighboring cities are connected by a road and the first and the last city in the sequence are also connected by a road. Input The first line contains the number of test cases T. Each case begins with a line containing integers N, M and K, which represent the number of cities, the number of roads and the number of important cities, respectively. The cities are numbered from to N, and the important cities are numbered from to K. The following M lines contain two integers ai and bi, le i M, that represent two different cities connected by a road. It is guaranteed that le ai, bi N and ai ne bi. There will be at most one road between two cities. Output For each of the test cases numbered in order from to T, output Case i followed by a single integer, the minimum number of roads that need to be removed such that there are no cycles that contain an important city. Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , le K le N Example In the first example, we have N cities that are connected by M roads and the cities and are important. We can remove two roads connecting , and , and the remaining network will not contain cycles with important cities. Note that in the remaining network there is a cycle that contains only nonimportant cities, and that there are also multiple ways to remove two roads and satisfy all conditions. One cannot remove only one road and destroy all cycles that contain important cities.# Sequence Slicing Let S be a sequence of N natural numbers. We can define an infinite sequence MS in the following way MSk Sk mod N N floork N. Where k is a zero based index. For example if the sequence S is , then MS would be , , , , , , . Now consider a subsequence of MS generated by picking two random indices a, b from the range .R inclusive, and taking all the elements between them, that is MSmina, b.maxa, b. If we use the same MS as in the example above and a , b then our subsequence would be , , . Your task is to calculate the probability that the selected subsequence has at least K distinct elements. a and b are selected independently and with a uniform distribution. The result should be printed as a fraction. See the Output section for clarification. Input The first line of the input file contains an integer T. This is followed by T test cases, each of which has two lines. The first line of each test case contains three integers separated by spaces, N, K, and R. The second line contains N space separated integers, S through SN. Constraints le T le le N le , le K le R le , le Si le , Output For each of the test cases numbered in order from to T, output Case i followed by the probability that the selected subsequence of MS has at least K distinct elements. The probability should be expressed as a fraction pq, where p and q represent the numerator and denominator respectively and are relatively prime that is they share no common positive divisors except . If the probability is or output or respectively. Examples In the first example there are different subsequences to consider. of them have only a single number, and the remaining have at least different numbers, so the answer is . The second example is similar, but now the sequence looks like , , , . There are subsequences with less than distinct numbers the six single number subsequences plus a, b and a, b which both result in ,. That gives a probability of . The third example uses the same sequence as the second example, but now we want to have subsequences with at least different numbers. All pairs of indices that have this property are , , , , , and , . Six out of thirty six results in a probability of .# Divisor Function Optimization Let dN be the number of positive divisors of positive integer N. Consider the infinite sequence xn dna nb, n , , where a and b are fixed positive integers. It can be shown that this sequence tends to zero. Hence it attains its maximum. Denote it by pq where p and q are coprime positive integers. Your task is for given a and b find p and q modulo M . But to keep input and output small you will be given tuples b b a a c and need to calculate the sum of p mod M for all pairs a b such that b le b le b, a le a le a and a le cb, and the same sum for qvalues. Input The first line contains a positive integer T, the number of test cases. T test cases follow. The only line of each test case contains five space separated positive integers b, b, a, a and c. Output For each of the test cases numbered in order from to T, output Case i followed by a space separated pair of integers the sum of p mod M for all pairs a b mentioned above and the sum of q mod M for all such pairs. Note that you need to find the sum of residues not the residue of sum see testcase as a reference. Constraints le T le le b le b le , le a le a le , le c le in each testcase the total number of pairs a b for which the answer should be calculated does not exceed ,# Trapezoids Consider two horizontal lines and a set of N trapezoids. A trapezoid Ti between these lines has two vertices situated on the upper line and the other two vertices on the lower line. We will denote by ai, bi, ci and di the upper left, upper right, lower left and respectively lower right vertices of the trapezoid Ti. Assume that no two trapezoids share a common vertex meaning that all a i and b i coordinates on the upper line are different, and the same holds for the bottom line and coordinates c i and d i. A trapezoid set is called disconnected if one can separate the trapezoids in two or more groups such that no two trapezoids from different groups intersect. Determine the smallest number of trapezoids to remove, such that the remaining trapezoids form a disconnected set. If the solution does not exist, output . Input The first line of the input file contains an integer T, and this is followed by T test cases. Each test case is given in the compressed format. The first line of each test case contains the number of trapezoids N, an integer K, and integer parameters X, A, B, M, p, q. In the next K lines are given integer numbers aai, bbi, cci, ddi. The following code is used for generating the next random number using linear congruential generator with the starting value X and parameters A, B and modulo M long long prior X long long next prior A prior B M return prior The following code is used for extending the auxiliary sequences aa, bb, cc and dd for int i K i The final coordinates of the trapezoids are given by for int i i Note that above code generates trapezoids that satisfy all conditions of the problem, and denotes the remainder of division. Output For each of the test cases numbered in order from to T, output Case i followed by a single integer, the minimum number of trapezoids that need to be removed such that the remaining trapezoids form a disconnected set. Constraints le T le le N le , le K le N le X, A, B le , , le aa i, bb i, cc i, dd i le , le p, q, M le , Examples In the first example, one can remove trapezoids and leaving two disconnected sets with trapezoids , , and , . In the second example, the coordinates of ten trapezoids are # Unfriending Its time to clean up your friends list after friending too many people on Facebook over the winter. The set of your friends user ids is F x, x, ., xn. Each friend from F is on zero or more friend lists that you use to organize your friends. There are M friend lists, c, c, ., cm. You can unfriend remove from F some of your friends, but because you want to stay in touch with people, you can only unfriend one person from each friend list. You may also choose not to unfriend anyone from friend list. Any friend that isnt on a friend list cannot be unfriended. Your goal is to find the maximum possible distance between the two friends whose user ids are the closest after you are done unfriending people. The distance between user id x and user id y is defined as absxy. Input The first line contains a positive integer T, the number of test cases. T test cases follow. The first line of each test case contains the number of friends N, and number of friend lists M, separated by a space. The second line contains x and integer parameters a, b, and p, separated by spaces. You must use these to generate the remaining numbers x, x, xn according to this formula xi xi a b mod p The next M lines of each test case define the friend lists for that test case. Each line consists of the following integers, separated by spaces size, y, a, b. The size is the number of friends in the friend list. y is the index in F of the first friend in the list. You must generate the remaining friends in the friend list y, x, yn according to the following formula yi yi a b mod n If a friend list contains more than one of a given index, consider it to only contain that index once. Constraints le T le le n le le m le le sum of sizes of all friend lists le Numbers used in generators lt a, p lt le b lt Output For each of the test cases numbered in order from to T, output Case , followed by the case number, followed by , followed by the maximum possible distance between the two closest user ids that you are still friends with for that case.# Linsane Phone Numbers As the Jeremy Lin sensation goes on, Roger, who is a geek and a super fan of Jeremy Lin, decides his new cell phone number must be Linsane. More specifically, he wants his new phone number to satisfy Adjacent sum There is at least one occurrence in the phone number of three adjacent digits summing to x, where x is Lins jersey number at New York Knicks. Diversity There are at least y different values of the digits used in the phone number, where y is Lins jersey number at Golden State Warriors. Neighboring difference There is at least one pair of neighboring digits whose difference is equal to z, where z is Lins jersey number at Harvard. A phone number with length n contains n digits. Each digit is in the range from to , except that the first digit must be nonzero. A phone number is called linsane if it satisfies the three constraints listed above. For phone numbers with a given length n, Roger wonders how many linsane phone numbers exist. He also wants to find out the most linsane phone number among them. For a given length, the most linsane phone number is a linsane phone number that has the biggest linsanity measurement among them. Linsanity measurement is defined as , where n is the number of digits and di is the ith digit in the phone number. If there is a tie on such measurement, choose the one whose median of the digits is largest and if there is still a tie, choose the largest phone number. Median is the nth smallest digit if n is odd, or the average of the nth and nth digit if n is even. For example, the linsanity measurement of number is equal to with its median equal to . Input The first line contains a positive integer T, the number of test cases. T test cases follow. Each test case is a single line and contains exactly four integers separated by single white space n x y z, where n is the length of the phone number, x is Lins jersey number at New York Knicks, y is Lins jersey number at Golden State Warriors and z is Lins jersey number at Harvard. x,y and z are not necessarily , and in another parallel universe. Constraints le n le le x le le y le le z le le T le Among the T test cases, there will be no more than test cases with n . Output For each of the test cases numbered in order from to T, output Case , followed by the case number, followed by , followed by the number of possible linsane phone numbers mod for the given length for that case, and then a single space followed by the most linsane phone number for the given length or if no linsane phone number exists for the given length. # Maximal Multiplicative Order Lets start with some notations and definitions. Let m be the fixed positive integer. Let a be an integer that coprime to m, that is, gcda, m . The minimal positive integer k such that m divides ak is called the multiplicative order of a modulo m and denoted as ordma. For example, ord since is divisible by but and are not. It can be proven that ordma exists for every a that coprime to m. Denote by Lm the maximal possible multiplicative order of some number modulo m. That is, Lm maxordma le a le m, gcda, m. For example, L max ord, ord, ord, ord max, , and L maxord, ord max, . Denote by Nm the number of positive integers a le m such that ordma Lm. For example, N , N , N numbers that have maximal multiplicative order modulo are , and . Now your task is to find for the given positive integers L and R such that L R the product NL NL . NR modulo . Input The first line contains a positive integer T, the number of test cases. T test cases follow. The only line of each test case contains two space separated positive integers L and R. Output For each of the test cases numbered in order from to T, output Case i followed by the value of required product modulo . Constraints le T le le L le R le R L le # Possible Medians For this problem, a possible median is defined as The median value of a set containing an odd number of values. or One of all the integers between, but not including, the two median values of a set containing an even number of values.Examples is the only possible median of the set , , . , and are all of the possible median values for the set , . There are no possible median values for the set , , since there are no integers between and . You are given an array A of N unique nonnegative integers, all of which are lt N i.e. a permutation of the numbers .N, where le N le ,. You are also given a length L le L le N. Additionally, you are given Q le Q le , queries, each containing a number x le x lt N and two indices i and j le i lt j le N. Each query returns TRUE if and only if there exists at least one subrange, of at least L elements, of the range Ai.Aj where the array indices start at , with x as a possible median. In other words, the answer is TRUE precisely when there exist a, b with i le a lt b lt j with b a ge L and with Aa.Ab having x as a possible median. You wish to determine the number of queries which will return TRUE. Input The first line contains a positive integer T le T le , the number of test cases. T test cases follow. The first line of each test case consists of a single integer, N. The next line consists of N spaceseparated integers, the Ai. The line after that contains two spaceseparate d integers, L and Q. Each of the remaining Q lines in the test case contains three spaceseparated integers, x, i and j. These inputs are all integers, and will be input in decimal form, with no leading zeros, and no decimal points. Output For each of the test cases numbered in order from to T, output Case , followed by the case number, followed by , followed by a single integer, the number of passing queries. These outputs are all integers, and must be output in decimal form, with no leading zeros, and no decimal points. # Balanced Smileys Your friend John uses a lot of emoticons when you talk to him on Messenger. In addition to being a person who likes to express himself through emoticons, he hates unbalanced parenthesis so much that it makes him go Sometimes he puts emoticons within parentheses, and you find it hard to tell if a parenthesis really is a parenthesis or part of an emoticon. A message has balanced parentheses if it consists of one of the following An empty string One or more of the following characters a to z, a space or a colon An open parenthesis , followed by a message with balanced parentheses, followed by a close parenthesis . A message with balanced parentheses followed by another message with balanced parentheses. A smiley face or a frowny face Write a program that determines if there is a way to interpret his message while leaving the parentheses balanced. Input The first line of the input contains a number T le T le , the number of test cases. The following T lines each contain a message of length s that you got from John. Output For each of the test cases numbered in order from to T, output Case i followed by a string stating whether or not it is possible that the message had balanced parentheses. If it is, the string should be YES, else it should be NO all quotes for clarity only Constraints le length of s le nbsp# Beautiful Strings When John was a little kid he didnt have much to do. There was no internet, no Facebook, and no programs to hack on. So he did the only thing he could. he evaluated the beauty of strings in a quest to discover the most beautiful string in the world. Given a string s, little Johnny defined the beauty of the string as the sum of the beauty of the letters in it. The beauty of each letter is an integer between and , inclusive, and no two letters have the same beauty. Johnny doesnt care about whether letters are uppercase or lowercase, so that doesnt affect the beauty of a letter. Uppercase F is exactly as beautiful as lowercase f, for example. Youre a student writing a report on the youth of this famous hacker. You found the string that Johnny considered most beautiful. What is the maximum possible beauty of this string Input The input file consists of a single integer m followed by m lines. Output Your output should consist of, for each test case, a line containing the string Case x y where x is the case number with being the first case in the input file, being the second, etc. and y is the maximum beauty for that test case. Constraints le m le le length of s le # Find the Min After sending smileys, John decided to play with arrays. Did you know that hackers enjoy playing with arrays John has a zerobased index array, m, which contains n nonnegative integers. However, only the first k values of the array are known to him, and he wants to figure out the rest. John knows the following for each index i, where k le i lt n, mi is the minimum nonnegative integer which is not contained in the previous k values of m. For example, if k , n and the known values of m are , , he can figure out that m . John is very busy making the world more open and connected, as such, he doesnt have time to figure out the rest of the array. It is your task to help him. Given the first k values of m, calculate the nth value of this array. i.e. mn . Because the values of n and k can be very large, we use a pseudorandom number generator to calculate the first k values of m. Given nonnegative integers a, b, c and positive integer r, the known values of m can be calculated as follows m a mi b mi c r, lt i lt k Input The first line contains an integer T T le , the number of test cases. This is followed by T test cases, consisting of lines each. The first line of each test case contains space separated integers, n, k le k le , k lt n le. The second line of each test case contains space separated integers a, b, c, r le a, b, c le , le r le . Output For each test case, output a single line containing the case number and the nth element of m. # Card Game John is playing a game with his friends. The games rules are as follows There is deck of N cards from which each person is dealt a hand of K cards. Each card has an integer value representing its strength. A hands strength is determined by the value of the highest card in the hand. The person with the strongest hand wins the round. Bets are placed before each player reveals the strength of their hand. John needs your help to decide when to bet. He decides he wants to bet when the strength of his hand is higher than the average hand strength. Hence John wants to calculate the average strength of ALL possible sets of hands. John is very good at division, but he needs your help in calculating the sum of the strengths of all possible hands. Problem You are given an array a with N le , different integer numbers and a number, K, where le K le N. For all possible subsets of a of size K find the sum of their maximal elements modulo ,. Input The first line contains the number of test cases T, where le T le Each case begins with a line containing integers N and K. The next line contains N spaceseparated numbers le a i le , which describe the array a. Output For test case i, numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by a single integer, the sum of maximal elements for all subsets of size K modulo ,. Example For a , , and N and K , the maximal numbers among all triples are , , and the sum is .# Dead Pixels Johns friend Peter purchases a new high resolution monitor with dimension W H where W is the number of pixels in each row i.e. width and H is the number of pixels in each column i.e. height. However, there are N dead pixels on the monitor. The ith dead pixel is located at xi, yi. , is the topleft pixel and W , H is the bottomright pixel. The locations of the dead pixels could be generated by given integers X, Y, a, b, c and d by the following rules. If pixels are at the same location, they are considered the same. It is possible that there are less than N distinct dead pixels. x X y Y xi xi a yi b W for lt i lt N yi xi c yi d H for lt i lt N Peter connects his monitor to his computer and opens an image with dimension P width Q height. How many unique positions can the image be placed so that it can be displayed perfectly i.e. all pixels of the picture are shown on the monitor The image cannot be rotated. Input The first line contains an integer T, which is the number of test cases. Then T test cases follow. Each test case contains integers W, H, P, Q, N, X, Y, a, b, c, d. Output For each of the test cases numbered in order from to T, output Case , followed by the case number with being the first test case, followed by , followed by an integer which is the number of different possible positions for the poster. Constraints le T le le W, H le le P le W le Q le H le N le min , W H le a, b, c, d le le X lt W le Y lt H nbsp# Security You are designing a new encryption system that works in the following way For serverclient communication you need a key k, composed of m sections, each of length l, and the key consists only of lowercase characters in the set a, b, c, d, e, f. The server has a key k and the client has a key k where k fk. f is a function that receives a key and replace some random letters by indicating that those characters can be any lowercase letter of the set described before. k fgk. g is a function that takes a key and produces a random permutation of its m sections. And f is the function defined above. For example let m , l fabacbc bac gabacbc acbcab each section was moved one place to the left. Your task is given k and k, find key k. If there are several solutions, print the lexicographically smallest key. And if there is no solution at all, print IMPOSSIBLE without the quotes. Input description The first line has a single integer T, which corresponds to the number of test cases. T test cases follows the first line of the test case corresponds to the integer m, the second line contains the string k and the third line contains the string k. Constraints T le lt k le lt m le k k It is guaranteed that m is always a divisor of k k and k consist of a, b, c, d, e, f, Output description For test case i, numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by the lexicographically smallest key or IMPOSSIBLE.# Cake Cutting Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to Grovyle. Happy birthday to you. Today is Grovyles birthday and he is going to invite his friends to his birthday party. To have an awesome party, each of the attendants should get one piece of cake. Your job is to help Grovyle invite as many friends as you can. However, Grovyles parents are very mean, and make him use the following rules when cutting his cake There is only ONE cylindrical cake. Grovyle cuts the cake N times, each cut being perpendicular to the surface of the cake. The ith cut is a broken line with ai vertices. The knife is only allowed to intersect the edge of the cylindrical cake at the start and end of the cut. What is the maximum number of pieces Grovyle could get Input The first line contains an integer T, T le , indicating the number of test cases. Each test case begins with an integer N, le N le , followed by N integers ai, le ai lt , which indicate the number of vertices in the ith cut. Output For each test case, output Case i followed by the maximum number of pieces of cake Grovyle can cut.# Permutations In this problem you need to count number of possible permutations p of the first N integers, given N constraints of the form pi lt pj. Input The first line contains an integer T, T le , followed by T test cases. Each test case begins with an integer N, N le , which is the number of integers in the permutation. The next N lines each contain a single constraint in the following format i sign j, where le i, j le N and sign is either lt or gt, which denotes whether the ith element of the permutation should be less than or greater than the jth element. It is guaranteed that it is not possible to partition indices into two disjoint sets A and B such that there is no constraint involving elements from both A and B. Output For each test case, output one single line with the number of permutations that satisfy all the constraints, following the output format shown in the example. The answer may be very large, so you should give the result modulo ,.# RoboElection In the not so distant future the world is populated by robots and ruled by an evil robot emperor. Every robot in the world can be identified by a unique numeric ID, and the list of all the existing robot IDs is easily accessible to everyone. One day the emperor decided to call for a general election to preserve an illusion of democracy. He set it up in the following way Every robot can cast at most one vote per round of voting and the votes are anonymous. The only option on the ballot is the vote for reelection of the emperor. If at least P percent of the population cast votes for the emperor he becomes reelected for the next millennium. Otherwise the emperor declares the vote void, disassembles K robots with the lowest ID numbers who he finds to be the most rebellious, and then if there are any functional robots left he restarts the whole process. All the robots are perfectly logical but also rather lazy and prone to procrastination. Thats why after figuring out the plan of the emperor, they will abstain from voting unless they have to vote to survive the election including this round and all later rounds. If they will die whether or not they vote, they will vote in the hope that the emperor will spare them. He wont, because hes evil. Problem Given N the initial population size, K the number of robots disassembled after an unsuccessful vote and P the required percentage of votes. Compute the number of times the vote will take place. Input The first line contains the number of test cases T, where le T le Each case is a single line with three spaceseparated integers N K P lt K le N le , lt P le Output For test case i, numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by a single integer, the number of times the emperor will have to call a vote before getting reelected. Example In the first case we have three robots. Two of them are facing disassembly, so they will vote for the emperor. The third robot will survive even if he abstains in the first round, so he doesnt vote. But two out of three is not enough to reach the minimum, so the election proceeds to a second round. The election ends when the single remaining robot casts a vote for the emperor. In the second case again two robots are in immediate danger, but the next two robots are forced to vote as well, otherwise they would end up in the same situation as in the first example case. Now with the out of casting the vote the election successfully ends. # Digits War There has been a war between the digits in the kingdom of numbers and it is King Infinitys job to restore balance. In search of peace he came up with a new number system which only allows those numbers to exist in which . None of the consecutive digits are at war against each other. . No two digits that have only one digit in between them are at war. For example, if is at war with , then , and are all forbidden. A digit can be at war with itself. You are given a x binary matrix M index based, where Mij denotes whether there is a war between digit i and digit j. If Mij then they are at war and Mij means they are not. Mij will always be equal to Mji. Your task is to find the count of positive numbers that can exist in this number system with number of digits le K. No number in the number system can have leading zeroes. Limits le K le Input Input consists of T test cases, with T le . Each test case begins with the value of K followed by a x binary matrix. Output For every test case output the result modulo # Greedy Entertainers You are the King of Byteland, which now consists of K rival states. The national day of Byteland is approaching, and it is a day of great merriment. Each of the K states is throwing its own party. Fortunately your kingdom also has N rich and famous entertainers, numbered from to N. Its your job to allocate to each state, some non empty set of entertainers. Note that the same entertainer cannot be allocated to two different states. Some entertainers may be unallocated. Also to each allocated entertainer, you must pay C coins to hire him. The trouble is, some of the entertainers are fond of some others, and refuse to spend the national day without their friends, meaning they insist on being allocated to the same state if they are allocated. Under this constraint, you find out that allocating entertainers to the states becomes impossible. So you appeal to them to relax their requirements, and they ask you to donate more money to the entertainment industry. More formally, you will be provided with a dimensional array R. If the total amount of money you donate is less than Ruv, for u not equal to v, then entertainer u will NOT agree to spend the national day without the company of entertainer v. Note that if you do not allocate entertainer u, then you can safely ignore his restrictions. Ruv need not be equal to Rvu. You are free to donate any nonnegative amount of coins as you see fit. Find out the minimum expenditure you must make to satisfy all entertainers and all states. Note that your total expenditure is the amount of money you donate C the number of allocated entertainers. Input The first line contains T, the number of test cases. Each test contains lines. The first line contains integers N, K, C. The second line contains integers x, a, b, m The third line contains integers x, a, b, m Using these values, the array R can be generated as follows Let f x, f x fi a fi b m for i ge fi a fi b m for i ge If i gt j, Rij f i i j If i lt j, Rij f j j i Note that Rij is not defined for i j. Output For test case numbered i, output Case i followed by the minimum number of coins you must spend to satisfy everybody. Constraints T le le N le le K le N le C le , le x, a, b le , le x, a, b le , le m, m le , Explanation of Sample Cases In case , we get R and R . The optimal choice is to donate coins, and allocate entertainer to the only state. In case , R and R . The optimal choice here is to donate coins, and allocate both entertainers to the only state. In case , the matrix R look like this nbsp nbsp nbspnbsp nbsp The optimal choice is to donate , coins, and allocate one entertainer to each state.# Name the Baby Jack is blessed with a baby and he and his wife want to name their child. Jack is a mathematician and his wife is very superstitious. She wants the babys name to contain at least one of her ancestors names as a substring. They have decided that the babys name should be exactly L characters long, and will only consist of lowercase characters. Jacks wife gives Jack a list of N strings, the names of her ancestors. Jack finds all the name possible names for his baby and lists them in alphabetical order. He asks you to choose the Kth based name in the list as the name for his child. Input The first line contains T, the number of test cases. Each test case begins with the value of L followed by a single integer K. The next line contains a single integer N followed by N lines, each containing the name of one of the wifes ancestors. Output For every test case output the name for the child. If no such name exists print unnamed baby . Constraints le T le le L le le N le le length of each string in the list le le K le # Archiver You are writing a new revolutionary archiver. The archive is essentially a pair of nondecreasing sequences of integers of equal length K lexle.lexk and leyle.leyk. The decompression algorithm proceeds as follows Sequence , x,y, . xk,yk, xk, , defines a polygon P Starting from the point , increase either x or y coordinate by without moving outside of P. If both moves are available, you should increase y. After each step write to output if incremented x or otherwise. Repeat step until you end up in point xk,yk. Example decompression of sequence , , will produce string . Your task is to write a compression rate calculator, that is given binary string s find the smallest value of K for which there exists archive that decompresses to s. Input The first line contains a single integer T, T le . T test cases follow, where each test case consists of one binary string with length le ,. Output Output a single line containing the smallest possible K.# Colored Trees You are given two integers N and K, le N le , le K le . Your task is to calculate how many distinct trees with N vertices there are with each vertex colored with one of K colors. Multiple vertices can have the same color, and not all colors need to be used. Two trees t and t are considered identical if there exists a bijective function f from vertices of t to vertices of t such that each vertex x in t is colored the same as fx in t and each pair of vertices x, y in t is connected by an edge if and only if fx and fy are connected by an edge in t. A bijective function is a function that is both onetoone and onto, meaning that fx fy if and only if x y, and for every vertex y in t, there exists x in t, such that fx y. Input The first line contains a single integer T, T le . T test cases follow, where each test case consists of two integers N and K. Output Output one single line with the number of colored trees. Since this number might be very big, output it modulo ,. Examples# Minesweeping Do you know Minesweeper, the famous video game The player is initially presented with a grid of undifferentiated squares. Some randomly selected squares, unknown to the player, are designated to contain mines. One square can contain at most one mine. The game is played by revealing squares of the grid, typically by clicking them. After that, a digit is revealed in the square, indicating the number of adjacent squares under way connectivity, that is, if two squares share either an edge or a corner, they are considered adjacent that contain mines. If this number is zero then the surrounding squares are automatically also revealed. This process applies recursively and automatically every time a new square with count zero is revealed. Now, given a Minesweeper situation, you need to check if it is possible that such a situation can occur after exactly click on the grid. Note that the game is designed in such a way, that the first clicked square never contains a mine. Input The first line contains a single integer T, T le . Then T test cases follow. The first line of each test case contains two integers n, m which indicate the size of the grid le n le , le m le . n lines follow, each line contains m characters describing the situation of the grid. The meaning of the characters are as follows x the square is not revealed after the first click the number of mines that are adjacent to this square Output Output a single line containing Yes if the situation is valid after click, and No otherwise quotes for clarity.# Teleports Your house has le N le , distinct rooms. None of the rooms have doors, but every room has a one way teleport which takes you to a different room. The same teleport will always go to the same room. You want to make sure that every room can be reached from every room, via a series of teleports. To do this, you are allowed to change the destination of some or all of the teleports. What is the sum of the minimum number of teleports you have to change to achieve this, over all possible different starting configurations Two starting configurations are different if for some room, the outgoing teleport goes to different rooms in the two configurations. Input The first line contains a single integer T, T le . T test cases follow, where each test case consists of one integer N Output Output one single line with the sum of the minimum number of teleports you have to change over all possible different starting configurations. Since this number might be very big, output it modulo ,# Basketball Game A group of N high school students wants to play a basketball game. To divide themselves into two teams they first rank all the players in the following way Players with a higher shot percentage are rated higher than players with a lower shot percentage. If two players have the same shot percentage, the taller player is rated higher. Luckily there are no two players with both the same shot percentage and height so they are able to order themselves in an unambiguous way. Based on that ordering each player is assigned a draft number from the range .N, where the highestrated player gets the number , the second highestrated gets the number , and so on. Now the first team contains all the players with the odd draft numbers and the second team all the players with the even draft numbers. Each team can only have P players playing at a time, so to ensure that everyone gets similar time on the court both teams will rotate their players according to the following algorithm Each team starts the game with the P players who have the lowest draft numbers. If there are more than P players on a team after each minute of the game the player with the highest total time played leaves the playing field. Ties are broken by the player with the higher draft number leaving first. To replace her the player on the bench with the lowest total time played joins the game. Ties are broken by the player with the lower draft number entering first. The game has been going on for M minutes now. Your task is to print out the names of all the players currently on the field, that is after M rotations. Input The first line of the input consists of a single number T, the number of test cases. Each test case starts with a line containing three space separated integers N M P The subsequent N lines are in the format ltnamegt ltshotpercentagegt ltheightgt. See the example for clarification. Constraints le T le P le N le le M le le P le Each name starts with an uppercase English letter, followed by to lowercase English letters. There can be players sharing the same name. Each shot percentage is an integer from the range . Each height is an integer from the range . Output For each test case i numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by P space separated names of the players playing after M rotations. The names should be printed in lexicographical order. Example In the first example if you sort all the players by their shot percentage you get the list Wai, Purav, Weiyan, Slawek, Lin, Meihong. This makes the two teams Wai, Weiyan, Lin Purav, Slawek, Meihong The game starts with Lin and Meihong sitting on the bench in their respective teams. After the first minute passes its time for Weiyan and Slawek to sit out since they have the highest draft numbers of the people who played. After the second minute passes Lin and Meihong will keep playing since they only played one minute so far and its Wai and Purav who have to sit out. Finally after the third minute Lin and Maihong go back to the bench and all the players currently playing again arePurav Slawek Wai Weiyan# Square Detector You want to write an image detection system that is able to recognize different geometric shapes. In the first version of the system you settled with just being able to detect filled squares on a grid. You are given a grid of NtimesN square cells. Each cell is either white or black. Your task is to detect whether all the black cells form a square shape. Input The first line of the input consists of a single number T, the number of test cases. Each test case starts with a line containing a single integer N. Each of the subsequent N lines contain N characters. Each character is either . symbolizing a white cell, or symbolizing a black cell. Every test case contains at least one black cell. Output For each test case i numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by YES or NO depending on whether or not all the black cells form a completely filled square with edges parallel to the grid of cells. Constraints le T le le N le Example Test cases and represent valid squares. Case has an extra cell that is outside of the square. Case shows a square not filled inside. And case is a rectangle but not a square.# Tennison You may be familiar with the works of Alfred, Lord Tennyson, the famous English poet. In this problem we will concern ourselves with Tennison, the less famous English tennis player. As you know, tennis is not so much a game of skill as a game of luck and weather patterns. The goal of tennis is to win K sets before the other player. However, the chance of winning a set is largely dependent on whether or not there is weather. Tennison plays best when its sunny, but sometimes, of course, it rains. Tennison wins a set with probability ps when its sunny, and with probability pr when its raining. The chance that there will be sun for the first set is pi. Luckily for Tennison, whenever he wins a set, the probability that there will be sun increases by pu with probability pw. Unfortunately, when Tennison loses a set, the probability of sun decreases by pd with probability pl. What is the chance that Tennison will be successful in his match Rain and sun are the only weather conditions, so Prain Psun at all times. Also, probabilities always stay in the range , . If Psun would ever be less than , it is instead . If it would ever be greater than , it is instead . Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of tennis matches that Tennison plays. For each match, there is a line containing an integer K, followed by the probabilities ps, pr, pi, pu, pw, pd, pl in that order. All of these values are given with exactly three places after the decimal point. Output For each match, output Case i followed by the probability that Tennison wins the match, rounded to decimal places quotes for clarity only. It is guaranteed that the output is unaffected by deviations as large as . Constraints le T le le K le le ps, pr, pi, pu, pw, pd, pl le ps gt pr# AAAAAA Al is the proprietor of Als Awesome and Amazing Amusement Arcade, called AAAAAA by some, AAaAAA by others, AAAAA by others still, and alternately A or A by math majors. The problem with operating such a spectacular business is managing the line of people waiting to get in. City bylaws prevent people from loitering on Als property, so anybody who wants to experience the wonders Al has in store has to queue in the parking lot. Not wanting to turn people away, Al is interested in cramming as many hapless souls into the parking lot as he can. However, customers are a whiny bunch, and refuse to stand in any queue that makes too many detours before getting to the entrance. You can imagine that the parking lot is a grid, with the Arcades entrance in the upperleft corner. All queues must begin here. There may be cars in the parking lot, denoted . Customers refuse to queue on top of cars. All other cells will contain . Due to customer complaints, all queues must generally extend only rightwards and downwards. However, Als clientele is not entirely unreasonable, so a queue may have a single contiguous section that runs upwards, or a single contiguous section that runs leftwards, but not both. Queues only extend in these four directions i.e., not diagonally. There is only room for one customer in each empty space. Each pair of consecutive customers in the queue must stand in adjacent spaces, i.e. there cant be any gaps in the queue. Input The first line of the input consists of a single integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case begins with a line containing two integers, N and M, the number of rows and columns in the lots grid. The next N lines each contain a string with exactly M characters, where the ith line correspond to the ith row in the grid. Output For each test case i numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by the size of the largest queue starting in the top left corner that Al can fit into his parking lot. Constraints le T le le N, M le Each character in the grid will be either . or . The character in the upper left corner will always be . # Coins Game Alice and Bob like to play what they call the Coins Game. In this game Bob starts with K identical coins and N identical jars. A jar can fit any number of coins and Bob has to distribute all the coins in whatever way he wants. After the coins are distributed Alice takes the jars and shuffles them at random while Bob isnt looking. Alice will move jars around but will not move any coins between the jars. The jars are opaque so after the shuffle Bob doesnt see how many coins are in each. Now Bob has P moves. In each move he points at one of the jars. If the jar contains any coins Alice takes a single coin from it and hands it to Bob. If the jar is empty Alice tells Bob. Bob remembers his initial distribution and the moves he has made so far. The goal of the game is to check whether Bob is able to acquire at least C coins after his P moves. If he can do that he wins the game. After losing the first few games Bob is determined to figure out whats the minimal number of moves P that can guarantee his win. Your job is to help him, that is find the minimal value P for which there exists an initial coins distribution and moves strategy that makes Bob win no matter what order the jars are in. Input The first line of the input consists of a single integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case is a single line with three integers N K C Output For each test case i numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by an integer P, the minimal number of moves for which there exists a winning strategy. Constraints le T le le N le , le C le K le , Examples In the first test case we start with three jars and six coins. Bob needs to get four of them to win. A winning strategy is to put two coins in each jar. Then he can point twice at one jar and twice at another one to always get four coins. In the second example he can put the five coins in a different jar each. In the worst case he will point at an empty jar three times so he will need five total moves to get two coins. There is no way to guarantee a win with fewer than five moves.# Labelmaker David is labelling boxes in a giant warehouse. He has a lot of boxes to label, but unfortunately his labeling machine is broken, so only some of the letters work. In order to be efficient, David labels the boxes by first using every possible letter label in alphabetical order, then using every possible letter label in alphabetical order, then every letter label, etc. For example, suppose only the letters D, T, and Z work. David would label the first boxes as follows D, T, Z, DD, DT, DZ, TD, TT, TZ, ZD, ZT, ZZ, DDD, DDT, DDZ. The first box is considered box , not box . Given a set of working letters L on Davids labelling machine and a number N of boxes to label, return the label on the last box. Input The first line of the input consists of a single integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case consists of the string L and the integer N, separated by a space. Output For each test case i numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by the label on the last box. Constraints le T le le lengthL le L will be in alphabetical order, consist of only uppercase letters AZ, and contain each letter at most once le N le The test cases will be designed so that no label is longer than letters # Preventing Alzheimers It is a truth universally acknowledged that a grandparent in possession of a good fortune must furnish his or her grandchildren with cash on their birthdays. Your usual approach is to give each of your N grandchildren a number of dollars equal to their age, That means dollars for newborns its important that they learn what a rough place the world is from the very start. One of your younger, and more precocious, grandchildren, Elly, has read online that trying out new things is a good way to prevent Alzheimers. So, out of concern for your mental wellbeing and in the hopes that she might receive more money, shes posed a new distribution scheme. If any two grandchildren compare the size of their presents, they should find that both presents are divisible by an integer K. They should also find that there is no larger integer that divides the size of both presents, she states. Well, that seems harmless enough, you think. Of course, each grandchild will still have to receive at least as much money as they would have under the old scheme, to avoid any family drama. As youre getting on in years, your mathematical prowess isnt what it used to be. It would be easier to write a program that computes the additional drain on your pocketbook. Note that is divisible by all other numbers. Input The first line of the input consists of a single integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case starts with a line with the integers N and K. The next line consists of the ages of your grandchildren as N integers A, A, ., AN. Output For each test case i numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by the minimum extra amount of money you would have to spend compared to giving everyone money equal to their age. Constraints le T le le N le le K le le Ai le Examples In the first example, you would have to pay to one of them and to the other. The total cost would be . Under the old constraints, both grandchildren would get , for a total sum of . The answer is . You cant pay to both, because their gifts would be divisible by as well as . In the second example, a possible solution is to give them , and dollars, for a total of . Under the old constraints, you would give them a total of . The answer is . In the third example, all gifts have to be divisible by . A possible solution is , . This is more than the sum of their ages. Note that , are all divisible by , but and are both divisible by as well, so that solution is not valid.# Holdem Numbers In the game of Holdem Numbers, players play with a deck of N cards, where each card has a distinct number from the range .N on it. Each player is dealt two cards and the player who has the highest sum of the two numbers wins. If multiple players have the highest sum, the one of them who holds the highest card wins. All cards are dealt simultaneously so its impossible for two players to have the same card. After seeing your two cards you can bet . If you win the hand you get back but if another player wins you lose your dollar. You can also fold, in which case you dont win nor lose any money. Your opponents play very aggressively and they will always bet. After the winner is determined all cards are reshuffled to play another hand for the total of H games. Its possible you get dealt the same hand more than once. You want to maximize your winnings and only bet if your expected winnings are strictly greater than zero. To help yourself you decided to write a program that for the given deck size and hands you were dealt returns whether you should bet or fold. Input The first line of the input consists of a single integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case starts with a line containing two integers N and H The subsequent H lines each contain two integers, C and C, the cards you were dealt. Output For each test case i numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by a string of H characters. Each character being either B if you should bet, or F if should fold. The order of characters corresponds to the order of hands given in the input. Constraints le T le le N le le H le le C, C le N C ne C Examples In the first three examples we are playing a single hand with a deck of eight cards. The first case is a clear winner so you should bet. The second case gives no chance to win and you should fold. Finally the third case gives you chance of winning. This is good enough to make the bet profitable.# Magic Pairs The princess of the kingdom of Hackadia has been kidnapped by an evil dragon. As always the prince Z.A.Y. is going to try to rescue her. The evil dragon is keeping the princess prisoner in his deepest dungeon, and the prince has to solve a puzzle to get her out safely. There are two straight boards in front of the dungeon, both divided into a large number of sections. Each section contains a sparkling gemstone. Each stone has a color. We will denote these colors with numbers. Lets say these boards Board and Board contain N and M sections respectively. Lets call a pair of integers x, y a magic pair if they have the following properties le x lt N le y lt M The set of different colors in Board.x equals the set of different colors in Board.y The prince has asked you to find out how many magic pairs exist for the given two boards, so he can free the princess and become the hero. He will take all the glory from this, so you will have to make do with points in this competition as payment for your help. Since the numbers N and M might be very large, the colors of the gemstones will be supplied through a pseudo random generator. This works as follows Board x Board x Boardi a Boardi N b Boardi M c r, for lt i lt N Boardi a Boardi N b Boardi M c r, for lt i lt M Input The first line of the input consists of a single integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case starts with a line containing the integers N, M The second line of each test case contains five integers x, a, b, c, r The third line of each test case contains five integers x, a, b, c, r Output For each test case i numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by the number of magic pairs for the two boards. Constraints le T le le N, M le le x, x, a, a, b, b, c, c le le r, r le Examples The first example produces the following boards Board , , , , Board , , , There are magic pairs pair, gt pair, gt , , pair, gt , , # Ski Resort Planning Charlotte is a very successful Olympic skier. All the sponsor deals she landed during her career has made her very rich, so she has decided to retire from skiing. Charlotte has just bought an entire mountain, and is planning to build a ski resort there. The mountain has N interesting points, numbered , ., N. Point is the top of the mountain. Point i is further down the mountain than point j if i gt j. For each point a gt , she has decided on a different point b, which has the following property All paths from the top of the mountain to point a have to go through point b, and there is no point c, such that b lt c lt a and all paths from the top of the mountain to point a go through point c. A path can never go up the mountain. You have been given the task to plan where the slopes go. You can add slopes directly between any two different interesting points. How many ways can you lay out the slopes for her resort, while satisfying the conditions above Two ways of laying out the slopes, X and Y, are different if there exists two interesting points a and b, such that the slope between a and b exists in X or Y, but not in the other. You can assume that the skiers will be able to get to a lift from any point, so you dont have to worry about getting them all the way down for every path. You have to be able to reach all interesting points from the top. Input The first line of the input consists of a single integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case starts with a line containing the integer N. The next line of each test case contains N integers, A, A, ., AN, where Ai is the lowest interesting point that all paths to point i has to pass through. Output For each test case i numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by the number of ways you can lay out the slopes given the constraints in the input, modulo , Constraints le T le le N le Ai lt i for each of A, A, ., AN Examples The first example has to have the following slopes gt gt gt In addition, we can choose whether or not to add the slope gt The total will be one for adding the slope and one for not adding it.# Pizza Baking Tony plans to open a pizzeria. After researching the pizza market for a long time, he has come up with a prediction for the number of orders that he is going to receive. Tony will keep his pizzeria open for K hours a day. And he knows that he is going to get orders for N pizzas. Also pizza eaters are very fussy, so the ith pizza must be inserted into an oven at exactly the beginning of the Sith hour, and taken out of the oven at exactly the end of the Eith hour. For this purpose Tony needs to buy some ovens to be able to bake all the ordered pizzas. Each oven is quite large, and can hold several pizzas at the same time. However, due to voltage fluctuations throughout the day, only a certain number of pizzas can be baked simultaneously in each oven at any point of time. Tony has calculated the value Ci, for le i lt K, denoting the number of pizzas that can be baked together in an oven during the ith hour. A pizza that has been entered in an oven cannot be taken out of the oven until it has completed its scheduled baking period. High quality pizza ovens are very costly. Help Tony find out the minimum number of ovens he must buy to complete all orders, and then find an assignment of pizzas to ovens, satisfying all the constraints above. If there are multiple assignments involving the same minimum number of ovens, print the smallest possible assignment according to the ordering defined below. Heres how you compare two assignments. If X is an assignment of pizzas to ovens, let X i denote the set of based pizza indices assigned to oven i oven indices are also based. If S and T are two sets of pizza indices, we say that S lt T, if and only if there exists some index k, such that for le i lt k, pizza i either appears both in S and T, or is missing from both S and T, and, pizza k is present in S, but missing in T Example , lt , and , , lt , If X and Y are two pizza assignments, we say that X lt Y, if and only if there exists some k, such that for le i lt k, X i is identical to Y i , and, X k lt Y k , as per the set ordering defined above. Example X X , , X , , X , Y Y , , Y , Y , Then X lt Y, because X Y and X lt Y. Input The first line of the input consists of a single integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case starts with a line containing the integer K, the number of hours the pizzeria will be open. The next line of each test case contains K integers, C, C, ., CK, where Ci is the maximum number of pizzas that can be inside any single oven in the ith hour. The next line of each test case contains the integer N, the number of pizza orders. The next N lines of each test case contain a pair of integers, Si and Ei, the start and end times for baking the ith pizza. Output For each test case i numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by N space separated integers. The jth integer must denote the based oven index that the jth pizza is assigned to. Constraints le T le le K le le Ci le le N le le Si le Ei lt K # Restaurant Chains The kingdom of Hackadia has N cities that are connected by M bidirectional roads. Cities are enumerated from to N . To attract tourists, the government has decided to open up some restaurant chains throughout the kingdom. Each restaurant chain will serve some subset of cities, and will have exactly one restaurant in each city of the chosen subset. Thus, each city will have some restaurant chains, and it is possible to have all possible restaurant chains in some city or not to have any restaurant chains in some city. To ensure that tourists do not face a drastic change in the food scenario when traveling from one city to another, the government has decided that the following condition must be satisfied for each pair of cities u, v the number of restaurant chains open in city u but not in city v plus the number of restaurant chains open in city v but not in city u should always be equal to the shortest distance between city u and city v. It is guaranteed that every two cities are connected by some sequence of bidirectional roads, and the shortest distance between city u and city v is the number of roads on the shortest path connecting u and v. Your job is to help the government determine the minimal number of restaurant chains, such that there exist some assignment of the restaurant chains among the cities that satisfy the above condition. If such assignment is not possible print . Input The first line of the input will be the number of test cases T. Each of the test cases start with a line containing the numbers N and M, representing the number of cities and the number of roads respectively. The next M lines of each testcase contain a pairs of integers, representing the cities connected by a bidirectional road in Hackadia. Each testcase will be followed by an empty line. Output For each test case i numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by the minimal number of restaurant chains or . Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , Explanation In the first example, we can have two restaurant chains named X and Y and have chain X serve cities and , and have chain Y serve cities and . In the second example, it is not possible to have such restaurant chain assignment. # Secret Santa There are K families living in Christmasville. During Christmas they have this tradition, where each person secretly gets a gift for some other person. The assignment of who gives gift to whom is generally done by a lottery, but this time we are writing a program to do it. The assignment should have the following properties Each person should give exactly one gift. Each person should receive exactly one gift. A person should not give a gift to someone within the same family. Find out how many possible assignments are there, that satisfy above constraints. Two assignments are considered different, if there exists some person, who gives gifts to different people in the two assignments. Since this number may be very large, output this number modulo , Input The first line of the input consists of a single integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case starts with a line containing the integer K, the number of families. The next line of each test case contains K integers, n, n, ., nK, where ni is the number of people in the ith family. Output For each test case i numbered from to T, output Case i , followed by the number of valid assignments, modulo , Constraints le T le le K le le ni le le n n . nK le # Fortunate Wheels Kit is competing on the popular game show, Fortunate Wheels. On this show, there is a secret word S consisting only of uppercase letters, known only to the host. Contestants can pay points to buy sequences of letters in hopes of matching part of S and earning more points This show is clearly a scam, as the probability of earning more points than are spent is extremely low. Fortunately, Kit has come prepared he knows the secret word Even so, getting as many points as possible will not be easy. There are N basic deals which contestants can take. The ith deal costs Ai points, and allows the contestant to purchase any sequence of Bi letters. Furthermore, deals can be combined to purchase longer sequences Combining a deal with cost C and length L with another deal potentially the same one with cost C and length L creates a new deal with cost C C W and length L L as long as L L lt S, which can in turn be used to create even bigger deals. For example, if W , then a basic deal with cost and length equal to could be combined with itself repeatedly to yield a new deal with both cost and length equal to any positive integer up to but not including S. Once Kit purchases a sequence of letters using one potentially nonbasic deal, it will be matched against the secret word twice The host will spin the First Fortunate Wheel to select the starting index in S for the first matching, which is chosen at uniform random such that the sequence will fit entirely within S. Then, the host will spin the Second Fortunate Wheel to select the starting index for the second matching, which is chosen at uniform random such that the sequence will fit entirely within S and such that the value given by the First Fortunate Wheel will not be repeated. For example, if the purchased sequence consists of a single letter, the First Fortunate Wheel might yield any of the indices in S with probability S each, and then the Second Fortunate Wheel might yield any of the remaining indices with probability S each. On the other hand, if the sequence has length S , then the First Wheel can yield either or , and the Second Wheel must yield the other. If, for both generated indices, the sequence miraculously happens to be equal to the substring of S of the same length starting at that index, then Kit will earn back YS X x Z points, where x is the length of the sequence. If even one letter is off in either matching, however, Kit will earn no points at all Kit is carefully considering his first turn of the game. He obviously wants to maximize the number of points hell gain, but worries that choosing the very best move might be suspicious. As such, hed like to find the expected point values of the M best distinct moves before making his decision. Two moves are distinct iff they involve purchasing different sequences of letters the deals used are ignored. Note that moves can have negative expected point values, due to the costs of deals. Input Input begins with an integer , the number of test cases. Each test case begins with a line containing six integers, N, M, W, X, Y, Z. The next line contains the string S. The next N lines each contain two integers, Ai and Bi. Output For each test case i, output Case i followed by a spaceseparated list of real numbers, the M largest expected point values which can be earned, in order. Round these values off to decimal places. Constraints le T le le S le le N le le Ai le le Bi lt S le W le le X lt S le Y le le Z le le M le Explanation of Sample In the first test case, Kits best move is to use the basic deal, costing points, to purchase the sequence Z. No matter what pair of indices the two Fortunate Wheels yield, this sequence will match and earn Kit points. Any other sequence shorter than S cannot match at even a single index, so Kits second and thirdbest moves consist of using the basic deal to purchase any other singleletter sequence, and simply losing the points. In the second test case, Kits best move consists of combining the third basic deal with itself to yield a deal with cost and length , and then purchasing the sequence OXEN. His three nextbest moves, which are the only other moves which get him a positive expected point value, involve using the third basic deal to purchase the sequences OX, XE, and EN.# Intervals of Love Do you remember helping Prince Z.A.Y. rescue the princess of the kingdom of Hackadia from an evil dragon in Round Well, as it so often happens, Z.A.Y. has fallen in love with his dearest princess. However, the princess has given Z.A.Y. a puzzle to solve to ensure that the one she marries is both brave and clever. The princess gives Z.A.Y a indexed array of N integers, and she asks him a series of questions. In each question, she provides an inclusive interval to the prince, and asks him how many subarrays in that interval are slowly increasing. A subarray is defined as a contiguous set of integers in the given array. A subarray is slowly increasing iff each integer in the subarray after the first is exactly more than the previous integer. For example, , , and , are slowly increasing, but , , , and , , are not. Easy problem, right Yup, so the princess is going to make it more challenging since she knows the prince is seeking help from the best Hackers from the world. Sometimes, instead of asking a question, the princess will change an integer in the array. Still an easy problem, right Probably, but the princess isnt going to make it any harder the prince did rescue her from a dragon, and could probably use a break. Input The first line consists of a single integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case starts with a line containing an integer N, the length of the array. Then line follows with N integers Xi representing the elements of the array. Then line follows with an integer M, the number of actions the princess takes questions and updates. Then M lines follow, each with integers. The first integer, op, represents the action the princess takes. If op is , then integers P and K follow, meaning that the princess will change the Pth element of the array to K. If op is , then integers L and R follow, meaning that the princess will ask how many slowly increasing subarrays there are between L and R inclusive. Output For each test case i, output Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of the answers to the princesss questions. Since this number might be large, output it modulo ,. Explanation of Sample In the first sample case, the answer to the first question is the slowly increasing subarrays are , , , , , and the answer to the second question is . So the sum is . In the second sample case, the answers are , and respectively, so the sum is . Constraints le T le le N le le M le le Xi, K le le P lt N le op le le L le R lt N# Lunch at Facebook Whats the best thing about working at Facebook Its hard to say, but the free food doesnt hurt. Every day there are long lines for food, and sometimes guests visit the campus, as hungry as everybody else. It pays to be a good host, so sometimes well let guests cut ahead in the line. But obviously nobody wants to miss out on delicious Facebook food. Every day, N Facebook employees are lined up for lunch, and every day M visitors come to the campus looking for food. Each person has an appetite Ai, which is a positive integer. Curiously, no two people have the same appetite. If people with large appetites eat first, theres a concern that the food might run out before the people at the back get to eat, so its ideal to have people with smaller appetites further ahead in the line. With this in mind, wed like to squeeze all of the guests into the lunch line as efficiently as possible. We define the unsuitableness of a line as the number of pairs of people in the line, Pi and Pj, such that Pi is ahead of Pj in the line, and Pi has a larger appetite than Pj. Your task is to find a way to get all the visitors into the lunch line such that the unsuitableness of the resulting line is minimized. The employees that are standing in line wont change order, but you can put guests in any place you want. Input The first line contains an integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case has three lines A line with N and M. A line with N integers, the appetites of the employees in order, beginning with the first employee. A line with M integers, the appetites of the visitors. Output For each test case i, output Case i followed by the minimum possible unsuitableness of the resulting line. Constraints le T le le N le le M le le Ai le Explanation of Sample For the first test case the optimal lunch line has the following appetites in order , , For the second test case the optimal lunch line is , , , # Tours Facebook HQ a mysterious place full of magical code and trade secrets. If outsiders were ever to breach the walls of the compound, which are protected by a legion of security foxes, the entire company could well be brought to its knees Hmmm. Actually, campus tours are given regularly. The compound consists of N buildings, with M walkways running amongst them. The ith walkway connects buildings Ai and Bi, Ai Bi and no two buildings are directly connected by more than one walkway. There are no other ways to move from building to building. Over a period of D days, some events will occur at Facebook HQ. One of two types of events will happen on the ith day, indicated by a character Ei. If Ei T, then a tour will take place. Otherwise, Ei S, and a security sweep of one building will take place. If a tour is given on the ith day, visitors will plan to enter the compound at building Xi, and leave from building Yi Xi Yi. If it turns out that these two buildings are not actually connected by any sequence of walkways, then the tour will be cancelled, and the unfortunate visitors will be given Facebook Tshirts on the way out. Otherwise, a large number of people will be led from building Xi to building Yi along various routes. No route will involve travelling along the same walkway multiple times even in different directions, but a route might revisit the same building repeatedly, including buildings Xi and Yi. Along the way some visitors will inevitably get themselves lost, and fail to rejoin the tour group. In total, Oi new outsiders will be left behind in each building which could possibly be part of any valid tour route from building Xi and building Yi. Good thing theyll no doubt have brought cameras to amuse themselves with while they wait to be found. On the other hand, if a security sweep is conducted on the ith day, then the security foxes will carefully search building Zi for any trespassers remaining from previous tours, and kindly escort them out. Since Facebook likes data, youve been hired to record how many outsiders were found in each sweep. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case begins with a line containing three integers, N, M, and D. The next M lines contain two integers Ai and Bi. The next D lines contain a character Ei, followed by either three integers Xi, Yi, Oi if Ei T, or a single integer Zi if Ei S. Output For each test case i, output Case i followed by the total number of visitors the foxes escort off the campus. Since this number may be quite large, output it modulo ,. Constraints le T le le N le le M le le D le le Oi le , le Ai, Bi, Xi, Yi, Zi le N Explanation of Sample In the first sample case On the first day, a tour is given from building to building . The only valid route consists of simply crossing the walkway between these two buildings. As such, by the end of the day, outsiders are left hiding in each of buildings and . On the second day, the tour cannot take place. On the third and fourth days, security sweeps of buildings and are carried out, with and outsiders found respectively. On the fifth day, a tour is given from building to building . There are exactly three valid routes , , , , , , . As such, one new outsider remains behind in each of buildings , , and . On the sixth day, the valid tour routes are , and , , so new outsiders take up residence in each of buildings , and . Finally, security sweeps of buildings , and are conducted evicting , and people respectively, for a grand total of . # Cooking the Books Every business can make use of a good accountant and, if theyre not big on following the law, sometimes a bad one. Bad accountants try to make more money for their employers by fudging numbers without getting caught. Sometimes a bad accountant wants to make a number larger, and sometimes smaller. It is widely known that tax auditors will fail to notice two digits being swapped in any given number, but any discrepancy more egregious will certainly be caught. Its also painfully obvious when a number has fewer digits than it ought to, so a bad accountant will never swap the first digit of a number with a . Given a number, how small or large can it be made without being found out Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of numbers that need tweaking. Each of the next T lines contains a integer N. Output For the ith number, print a line containing Case i followed by the smallest and largest numbers that can be made from the original number N, using at most a single swap and following the rules above. Constraints le T le le N le N will never begin with a leading unless N # Laser Maze Standard mazes lose their mystery as one grows older. But throw in some lasers, and suddenly youve got yourself a recipe for crossgenerational appeal. The object in any maze is to find your way from your starting point to some goal. In a Laser Maze you must additionally contend with laser turrets. A laser turret is a stationary pillar that both blocks your movement and fires lasers from one side. Every time you take a step either up, down, left, or right, every laser turret in the maze then rotates degrees clockwise, and then shoots a momentary laser blast in the direction that it is facing. Needless to say, if you find yourself in the path of one of these lasers, you wont be around long enough to find a way out. A wall is a stationary pillar that blocks your movement, but does not fire lasers. Lasers are powerful, but they do not pass through walls or laser turrets. The laser turrets respond to your movements, so you cant stand still and wait for the turrets to turn. If you reach the goal, but are immediately shot by a laser, your efforts will have been in vain, so make sure you reach the goal safely. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of mazes youll explore. For each maze, there is first a line containing two integers, M and N, the height and width of the maze, respectively. The next M lines contain N characters each, describing the maze . empty space wall S starting position G goal v laser turrets The four symbols for laser turrets signify turrets that are initially pointing left, right, up, or down respectively before you take your first step. Output For the ith maze, print a line containing Case i followed by the smallest number of steps necessary to get to the exit without being hit by a laser, or the string impossible if there is no way to reach the goal safely. Constraints le T le le M, N le Each maze will contain exactly one S and exactly one G. # New Years Resolution Alexs New Years resolution for is to eat healthier foods. Hes done some research and has found out that calories come from three main sources, called macronutrients protein, carbohydrates, and fat. Alex wants to get the right balance of protein, carbohydrates, and fat to have a balanced diet. For each available food, Alex can only choose to eat it or not eat it. He cant eat a certain food more than once, and he cant eat a fractional amount of a food. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, the first line consists of three spaceseparated integers GP, GC, and GF, which represent the amount of protein, carbohydrates, and fat that Alex wants to eat. The next line has the number of foods for that test case, an integer N. The next N lines each consist of three spaceseparated integers P, C, and F, which represent the amount of protein, carbohydrates, and fat in that food, respectively. Output For each test case i, print a line containing Case i followed by either yes if it is possible for Alex to eat the exact amount of each macronutrient, or no if it is not possible. Constraints le T le le N le le GP, GC, GF le le P, C, F le # Autocomplete Since you crave stateoftheart technology, youve just purchased a phone with a great new feature autocomplete Your phones version of autocomplete has some pros and cons. On the one hand, its very cautious. It only autocompletes a word when it knows exactly what youre trying to write. On the other hand, you have to teach it every word you want to use. You have N distinct words that youd like to send in a text message in order. Before sending each word, you add it to your phones dictionary. Then, you write the smallest nonempty prefix of the word necessary for your phone to autocomplete the word. This prefix must either be the whole word, or a prefix which is not a prefix of any other word yet in the dictionary. Whats the minimum number of letters you must type to send all N words Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then, N lines follow, each containing a word to send in the order you wish to send them. Output For the ith test case, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum number of characters you need to type in your text message. Constraints le T le le N le , The N words will have a total length of no more than , characters. The words are made up of only lowercase alphabetic characters. The words are pairwise distinct. NOTE The input file is about MB. Explanation of Sample In the first test case, you will write h, he, l, hil, hill, for a total of characters.# Corporate Gifting The fine people of Corpro Corp. are a festive bunch. Every holiday season, everybody buys a gift for their manager. A cynic might say that the employees are just trying to bribe their way to a better performance review, but if you asked them yourself, theyd say they just wanted to spread cheer. The fine people of Corpro Corp. are a frugal bunch. When they buy gifts, they cooperate to collectively buy the least expensive gifts that they can. A cynic might say that the employees are cheap, but if you asked them yourself, theyd say its the thought that counts. There are N employees working at Corpro Corp., and each of them has a manager, except for the CEO who has no manager the CEO also buys a gift every year, but she donates it to charity. The employees each have a unique employee ID which is an integer from to N. As you might expect, the CEO has the ID . If there exists a set of two or more employees p, ., pk such that, for all i lt k, pi is the manager of pi, then we say that p is responsible for pk. There are never two employees who are responsible for each other. That would be a silly hierarchy indeed. There are N kinds of gifts available for purchase, and the ith kind of gift costs i dollars. That is, the prices of the different kinds of gifts are , , . N. There are N copies of each gift available for purchase. The only thing that stops all employees from purchasing gifts that cost is the awkwardness of buying a gift for their manager thats the same as the one their manager is giving away. No employee would ever do such a thing For example, in a company with just employees, at least must be spent in total. If employee the CEO buys a gift to donate to charity, then employee cannot buy a gift for employee their manager, but they can buy a gift instead. Note that it would be equally optimal for the CEO to buy a gift, while receiving a gift from her subordinate. Whats the minimum possible total expenditure across the whole company during the gift exchange Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of corporate hierarchies to consider. Each hierarchy is made up of two lines. The first line contains the integer N. The second line contains N spaceseparated integers. The ith integer is the employee ID of the manager of employee i, with the exception that the first integer is always , denoting that the CEO has no manager. Output For the ith hierarchy, print a line containing Case i followed by the smallest amount of money the entire company would need to spend. Constraints le T le le N le , NOTE The input file is about MB. Explanation of Sample In the first test case, the CEO will spend , and the other employees will spend . In the second test case, employees and will spend , and the other employees will spend .# Homework Your firstgrade math teacher, Mr. Book, has just introduced you to an amazing new concept mdash primes According to your notes, a prime is a positive integer greater than that is divisible by only and itself. Primes seem fun, but without giving you and your yearold colleagues time to consider their implications, hes promptly gone on to define another term primacity. He explains that the primacity of an integer is the number of distinct primes which divide it. For example, the primacity of is as its divisible by primes and , the primacity of is as its divisible by primes , and , and the primacity of is as the only prime its divisible by is . Following his lesson, Mr. Book has given you homework with some rather mean questions of the following form Given integers A, B, and K, how many integers in the inclusive range A, B have a primacity of exactly K Mr. Book probably expects his little homework assignment to take you and your classmates the rest of the year to complete, giving him time to slack off and nap during the remaining math classes. However, you want to learn more things from him instead Can you use the skills youve learned in your firstgrade computer science classes to finish Mr. Books homework before tomorrows math class Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of homework questions. For each question, there is one line containing spaceseparated integers A, B, and K. Output For the ith question, print a line containing Case i followed by the number of integers in the inclusive range A, B with a primacity of K. Constraints le T le le A le B le le K le Explanation of Sample In the first test case, the numbers in the inclusive range , with primacity are , , and . All other numbers in this range have primacity . # Winning at Sports In the game of Sports, the object is have more points than the other team after a certain amount of time has elapsed. Scores are denoted by two hyphenseparated integers. For example, scores may include , , or . The first number is how many points youve scored, and the second is the number of points scored by the opposing team. Youre very good at Sports, and consequently you always win. However, you dont always achieve victory the same way every time. The two most extreme kinds of victory are called stressfree and stressful. In a stressfree victory, you score the first point and from then on you always have more points than your opponent. In a stressful victory, you never have more points than your opponent until after their score is equal to their final score. Given the final score of a game of Sports, how many ways could you arrange the order in which the points are scored such that you secure a stressfree or stressful win Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of games youll play. For each game, there is one line containing the final score of the game in the format described above. Output For the ith game, print a line containing Case i followed by two spaceseparated integers, the number of ways you can achieve a stressfree or stressful win, respectively. Since these numbers may be very large, output them modulo ,. Constraints le T le Since you always win, the first number in any final score will always be larger than the second. Both scores will be nonnegative integers not exceeding . Explanation of Sample In the third test case, you can get a stressfree win by scoring points , and , or points , and . You can get a stressful win by scoring points , and , or points , and . # All Critical In the game Theatrhythm Final Fantasy, you poke a screen with a stick to the beat of various songs. The goal is to poke the screen as accurately as possible. If you hit a note at just the right time, youre awarded a critical. Every song is broken into sections, and if you get a critical on every note in a section, then you get that sections golden critical bar. You would like to collect all critical bars for every song. Songs vary in difficulty, but each song has a fixed probability p, which is the chance that you manage to secure any one critical bar on a single playthrough. The chances are independent, so for any given pair of sections, the probability of getting both critical bars in a single playthrough is p, and so on. Critical bars are saved between playthroughs, so you dont have to win all of the critical bars in a single play of the song. You might win the first on one play, and then the last on another. On average, how many times will you have to play a song to win all critical bars Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of songs youll play. For each song, there is a line containing a floating point number, p, the probability of winning any particular critical bar on a single play of the song. Output For each song, output the expected number of times you need to play the song before acquiring all critical bars, rounded to five decimal points. Absolute errors of up to will be ignored. Constraints le T le . le p le . # Autocomplete Strikes Back This morning you woke up with an uncontrollable urge to send a text message made up of K distinct words. But, can you believe it Your new phone just crashed and all of the words are missing from its dictionary You used to have N words in there, and you certainly dont have time to add all of them back right now. Your plan is to just choose K of the N possible words, add them to your phones dictionary, and then text each of them. To text a certain word, you must either type the word itself, or any nonempty prefix of it which is not a prefix of any other word in the dictionary. Whats the minimum number of letters you must type to send your message of K words Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and K. Then, N lines follow, each containing a word that used to be in your phones dictionary. Output For the ith test case, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum number of characters you need to type to send your text message. Constraints le T le le N le , le K le minN, The N words will have a total length of no more than , characters. The words are made up of only lowercase alphabetic characters. The words are pairwise distinct. Explanation of Sample In the first case, one option is to choose the words tin, tinny, gigantic, and tilts. You can then text these words by typing tin, tinn, g, and til, respectively, for a total of letters.# Fox Socks Mr. Fox sure loves his socks He stores his many indistinguishable socks in a set of N bins, which are arranged in a circle and numbered in clockwise order. For every le i lt N, the next bin clockwise of bin i is bin i, and the next bin clockwise of bin N is bin . Initially, the ith bin contains Si socks. Never being quite satisfied with his sock collection, Mr. Fox would like to perform M operations on it, one after another. Each operation i may be of one of the following types, determined by the value of Oi Given integers Ai, Bi, Ci, and Di, add Ci Di socks to bin Ai, add Ci Di socks to the next bin clockwise of bin Ai, add Ci Di to the next bin clockwise of that one, and so on until this has been done for Bi bins. Determine the total number of socks added in this process. Given integers Ai, Bi, and Ci, remove all of the socks from bin Ai and then add Ci socks to it. Do the same for the next bin clockwise of Ai, and so on until this has been done for Bi bins. Determine the sum of two values the total number of socks removed in this process, and the total number of socks added in this process. Given integers Ai and Bi, count the number of socks in bin Ai without removing them, the number of socks in the next bin clockwise of Ai, and so on until the socks in Bi bins have been counted. Determine the total number of socks counted in this process. Given integers Ai and Bi, check if bin Ai contains an odd number of socks. Do the same for the next bin clockwise of Ai, and so on until this has been done for Bi bins. Determine the total number of these bins that contain an odd number of socks. Can you help Mr. Fox keep track of his socks Note the value calculated during each of the M operations as theyre performed, and then output the sum of all M of the values modulo . Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of sock collections Mr. Fox has. For each sock collection, there are lines containing the following spaceseparated integers N M S S XS YS ZS O O XO YO ZO A A XA YA ZA B B XB YB ZB C C XC YC ZC D D XD YD ZD The first two elements of each sequence of integers S, O, A, B, C, and D are given, and the rest are computed with the following pseudorandom generators Si XSSi YSSi ZS modulo , for le i le N Oi XOOi YOOi ZO modulo , for le i le M Ai XAAi YAAi ZA modulo N , for le i le M Bi XBBi YBBi ZB modulo N , for le i le M Ci XCCi YCCi ZC modulo , for le i le M Di XDDi YDDi ZD modulo , for le i le M Output For the ith sock collection, print a line containing Case i followed by the sum of all values calculated during each operation, modulo . Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , le Si lt le Oi le le Ai le N le Bi le N le Ci lt le Di lt le XS, XO, XA XB, XC, XD lt le YS, YO, YA YB, YC, YD lt le ZS, ZO, ZA ZB, ZC, ZD lt Explanation of Sample The first collection has bins that all have socks. None of the operations involve any socks at all, so the answer is . The second collection has bins with , , and socks. Mr. Fox performs the operations , , and in order. For each operation, A , B , C , D . He first adds socks to the bins, then removes all socks, then counts the remaining socks, and then counts odd bins, for a total of . The third collection also has bins with , , and socks. Mr. Fox performs the same operations, but this time C and D take on the values , , and in that order. He adds socks to the bins, then removes all socks and adds socks to each bin, then counts those socks, and then counts odd bins. The total is then . # Lazy Sort Much to Mr. Books amazement, his entire firstgrade math class has completed the enormous amount of homework that he assigned only the day before. Being hyperactive little kids, the gradeschoolers have dumped their homework, one page per student, unceremoniously in a pile on Mr. Books desk. There are N students in Mr. Books class, and they each have a distinct integer student ID from to N. Mr. Book wants the homework to be sorted by student ID with the page from student at the top, all the way down to the page from student N at the bottom. As we know, Mr. Book is a lazy fellow. Hes not going to put much effort into sorting the pile himself. As he considers the pile before him, Mr. Book decides that hell sort the homework as follows Every time he moves a page, hell only move it from the original pile to his finished stack, which initially starts empty. Furthermore, hell only move the top or bottom page of the remaining original pile, and hell only place it on the top or bottom of his neat destination stack. Is it possible for Mr. Book to sort the homework with such a method Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there are two lines. The first contains the integer N. The second contains a permutation of the integers from to N. These are the students IDs in the order their homework appears in the pile, from bottom to top. Output For the ith case, print a line containing Case i followed by yes if Mr. Book can sort the homework by student ID, or no if he cant. Constraints le T le le N le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, Mr. Book can just keep moving the top of the pile to the top of his final stack, which will reverse the order of the pages. In the fourth case, one approach is for Mr. Book to move pages , , and to the top of his final stack, and then move and to the bottom. # Boomerang Today youve found yourself standing on an infinite D plane at coordinates X, Y. There are also N targets on this plane, with the ith one at coordinates Xi, Yi. You have a boomerang which you can throw in a straight line in any direction from your initial location. After you throw it, you may instantaneously run to any location on the plane. After the boomerang has travelled a distance of exactly D along its initial trajectory, it will return directly to you mdash that is, to your chosen final location. Note that you cannot move around once the boomerang has started its return trip mdash its path will always consist of line segments the first of which has a length of exactly D. The boomerang and the targets have infinitesimal size. Let A be the number of targets which your boomerang hits directly passes through during the first segment of its flight, and B be the number of targets which it hits during the second segment. Your throw is then awarded a score of A B. Whats the maximum score you can achieve Note that, if there is a target at the exact location at which the two segments meet at a distance of D from your initial location, then it counts towards both A and B Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of planes. For each plane, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers X and Y. The next line contains the integer D, and the one after contains the integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi. Output For the ith plane, print a line containing Case i followed by the maximum score you can achieve. Constraints le T le le N le , le D le le Xi, Yi le , for le i le N All coordinates are pairwise distinct. The following restrictions are also guaranteed to hold for the input given For any three targets at distinct points a, b, and c, it is guaranteed that c is either closer than away from the infinite line between a and b and is considered to be on the line, or is further than away and is considered to not be on the line. Let p be any point at which the boomerang may change direction after hitting a target. For any two targets at distinct points a and b, it is guaranteed that p is either closer than away from the infinite line between a and b and is considered to be on the line, or is further than away and is considered to not be on the line. Explanation of Sample On the first plane, one optimal strategy is to throw the boomerang in the direction of the positive xaxis that is, to , and then run to , . It will hit targets and on the first segment of its flight, and all targets on the second segment, for a score of .# Fox Rocks Mr. Fox sure loves his rocks In fact, when hes not in a hurry, he often looks at the rocks lying around near him to decide where to wander in his forest. Mr. Fox lives in a forest with N clearings, numbered from to N, with P oneway trails initially running amongst them. The ith trail runs from clearing Ai to a different clearing Bi, and is littered with Ri rocks. No two clearings are connected by multiple trails running in the same direction, though they could be connected by trails running in opposite directions. Additionally, an interesting property of this forest is that a trail from clearing a to clearing b may only exist if le floorb floora le . To entertain himself over a period of D days, Mr. Fox will cause one event to occur on each day. The ith event may be one of types, determined by the value of Ei Given integers Xi, Yi, and Zi, Mr. Fox will create a new trail from clearing Xi to a different clearing Yi, and drop Zi rocks onto it. Its guaranteed that no trail from Xi to Yi will exist at the start of the ith day, and that le floorYi floorXi le will hold. Given distinct integers Xi and Yi, Mr. Fox will completely destroy the trail from clearing Xi to clearing Yi which is guaranteed to exist at the start of the ith day. Note that, once such a trail is destroyed, a new trail from Xi to Yi may be created in the future. Given distinct integers Xi and Yi, Mr. Fox will take a random stroll starting at clearing Xi, and would like to determine the probability that hell visit clearing Yi at least once during it. A random stroll consists of repeating the following process potentially infinitely If Mr. Fox is currently in some clearing c, and there are no outgoing trails from c, then the stroll ends immediately. Otherwise, hell consider all of the rocks on all of the outgoing trails from c, choose one of these rocks uniformly at random, follow the trail on which that rock lies to its destination clearing without removing any rocks, and repeat the process from his new clearing. For each event of type , output the requested probability. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, P, and D. Then, P lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai, Bi, and Ri. Then, D lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ei, Xi, and Yi. If Ei , this line additionally contains the integer Zi. Output For the ith test case, print a line containing Case i followed by the computed probabilities for each stroll that Mr. Fox takes. These probabilities should be spaceseparated, and rounded to decimal places. Absolute errors of up to will be ignored. Constraints le T le le N le , le P le , le D le , le Ai, Bi, Xi, Yi lt N le Ei le le Ri, Zi le Explanation of Sample In the first test case, Mr. Fox does multiple strolls from clearing while looking out for clearing . His first stroll has probability as he must always end up at clearing . His second stroll has probability as theres a chance he gets stuck in clearing . His third stroll has probability as he now only goes to clearing of the time. His fourth stroll has probability as he gets stuck in clearing of the time, and in clearing of the time. # Gentrification The residents of Townsville have made it clear to the mayor that theyre greatly concerned about gentrification, a process by which wealthy people move into the city in large numbers, displacing the people who currently live there. The mayor of Townsville knows a thing or two about this, and she would like to put the peoples minds at ease by determining the worstcase scenario. Townsville is made up of N neighbourhoods, with M oneway roads running between them. The ith road runs from neighbourhood Ai to neighbourhood Bi. A swarm of rich migrants will move to the city all at once, immediately gentrifying any neighbourhood they decide to move into. The mayor knows the following facts about these new affluent residents First, they like to visit other gentrified neighbourhoods. If theres a way of getting from their home neighbourhood to another gentrified neighbourhood, they will surely go visit. Second, they never walk anywhere they only drive. Consequently, theyll get very angry if they end up in some neighbourhood with no way to drive back home. Putting these facts together, it means that if rich migrants move into and gentrify any two neighbourhoods u and v, then it must be the case that there is a series of roads connecting u to v if and only if there is a series of roads connecting v to u. Given this selfimposed constraint, and the layout of the roads in Townsville, what is the maximum number of neighbourhoods that can be gentrified Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Output For the ith test case, print a line containing Case i followed by the maximum possible number of gentrified neighbourhoods. Constraints le T le le N le le M le , le Ai, Bi lt N for all le i le N Ai ne Bi for all le i le N Explanation of Sample In the first test case, you can get from any neighbourhood to any other neighbourhood, so they can all be gentrified. In the second test case, any single neighbourhood can be gentrified, but thats it. If any two neighbourhoods are gentrified, there would be a path from one to the other, but no path back.# Lunch Scheduling James and Wilson are the best of buddies. And, conveniently enough, they both work at Corpro Corp Every day, they have the opportunity to eat lunch together, while talking about how well their favourite sports teams are doing and how strict their managers are. However, their work obligations can often get in the way of that. At Corpro Corp, each workday is , milliseconds long, and the company uses the phrase time t to refer to the moment in time t milliseconds after the start of the workday. All employees arrive at time , and leave at time ,. On a certain day, James gets invited to J optional meetings. The ith of these meetings starts at time Ai and ends at time Bi. Similarly, Wilson gets invited to W optional meetings, with the ith one starting at time Ci and ending at time Di. All JW meetings might arbitrarily overlap with one another. Both James and Wilson may choose to accept any subset of their invitations, possibly none of them or all of them. The meetings are all conducted virtually, making it possible to attend multiple meetings at the same time mdash as such, two invitations may be accepted even if their time ranges overlap. As it turns out, James and Wilson actually hate having lunch together, but they feel obligated to do so if theyre able to. Eating lunch takes exactly L milliseconds, and so the two friends will meet up for lunch if theres a consecutive interval of at least L milliseconds within their work hours during which neither of them is taking part in any meetings. Less surprisingly, James and Wilson hate attending meetings. If James accepts x of his J invitations, and Wilson accepts y of his W invitations, then the combined inconvenience they experience is maxx, y. Determine whether or not its possible for them to avoid having to eat lunch together mdash and, if so, determine the minimum combined inconvenience they must incur to do so. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of days James and Wilson go to work. For each day, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers J, W, and L. Then, J lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Then, W lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ci and Di. Output For the ith day, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum combined inconvenience James and Wilson must experience, or Lunchtime if they cannot avoid having lunch together. Constraints le T le le J, W le le L le , le Ai lt Bi le , le Ci lt Di le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, James can attend the meeting from time , to , and Wilson can attend the meeting from time , to time ,. They each attend one meeting, so the combined inconvenience is . # Fox Blocks Today, Mr. Fox is taking it easy by playing with some blocks in a D world. Each block is an inchbyinch square, and there are N stacks of blocks in a row, with the ith stack having Hi blocks. For example, if N and H, , , then the collection of blocks looks like this where an X denotes a block .X .X.X .XX.X X.XX.X X.XX.X XXXXXX Ever curious, Mr. Fox would like to answer Q questions about his blocks without actually modifying them, the ith one being as follows If I were to consider only the stacks from Ai to Bi inclusive, getting rid of all of the other blocks, how many square inches of water would my block structure be able to hold As one might imagine, a given square inch can hold water if it doesnt contain a block itself, but there is a block both somewhere to its left and somewhere to its right at the same height. For example, if you were to take Ai and Bi, you would be left with the following block structure to consider where an denotes an inchbyinch square which can hold water .X .XX .XXX .XXX .XXX XXXXX Constraints le T le le N le , le Q le , le Hi le le Ai le Bi le N Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of block structures Mr. Fox has. For each structure, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and Q. The next line contains the spaceseparated integers Hi. Then follow Q lines, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Output For the ith structure, print a line containing Case i followed by the sum of the answers to the Q questions modulo . Explanation of Sample In the first case, we consider prefixes of the block structure. The answers to the queries are , , , , , for a total of .# Fox Focks Mr. Fox has opened up a fabulous Fock farm A Fock is a cute little animal which can have either red, green, or blue fur these possible colors can be numbered , and , respectively. Furthermore, a Focks fur color can change every second Mr. Fox owns a flock of N Focks, with the ith one initially having a color of Ci. Every second, if the ith Fock currently has a color of a, it will switch to having a color of b for the next second with probability Pi,a,b. All Focks change color simultaneously. After a very large amount of time has gone by, Mr. Fox will take a single photo of all of his Focks to help advertise his farm. In particular, he picks an integer t at uniform random from the range , and waits that many seconds. Hes hoping that the photo will make it look like his farm has a wellbalanced mix of Fock colors mdash itll be no good if the photo ends up featuring a strict majority of a single color that is, strictly more than N of the Focks having the same color. Whats the probability of this occurring Constraints le T le le N le , le Ci le for all i le Pi,a,b le for all i, a and b Pi,a, Pi,a, Pi,a, for all i and a Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of Fock farms Mr. Fox has. For each farm, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then, for each Fock i, lines follow. The first of these lines contains the integer Ci. The next three lines contain three spaceseparated integers each, with the bth integer on the ath line being Pi,a,b. Output For the ith farm, print a line containing Case i followed by the probability that the ith picture contains a strict majority of some color of Fock, rounded to decimal places. Absolute errors of up to e will be ignored. Explanation of Sample In the first case, the first Fock never changes color, so itll still have color in the photo. The second Fock is likely to have color for a while, but by the time the photo is taken, itll certainly have color . The third Fock will have either color or in the photo, with equal probability. Therefore, the photo will have a chance of having a strict majority of color , and a chance of no strict majority.# Fox Hawks Mr. Fox always puts aside some time on the weekends to practice his falconry. Mr. Fox owns N hawks, numbered from to N. While numbering is somewhat impersonal, it quickly becomes infeasible to name each hawk individually when you have as many hawks as Mr. Fox. Every year, the local falconer club hosts a festival for falconers from across the nation. Mr. Fox shows off some of his hawks at each festival, and this year is no different. Selecting a set of hawks to display is not a straightforward task however. Hawks can be temperamental creatures, and theyll refuse to perform if they dont like the situation they find themselves in. Luckily, after careful study, Mr. Fox has been able to capture the hawks preferences in a simple boolean expression. For example, lets say Mr. Fox has hawks. Hawk will only perform if some other hawk is present. Hawks and will only perform if hawks or are present. Hawk is much more easygoing and will perform in all situations. We can express these preferences with the following expression Each number is a boolean variable indicating whether or not Mr. Fox brings that hawk. If the expression is satisfied, then all of the hawks he brings will perform. If the expression is not satisfied, the hawks will be moody and that means no blue ribbons for Mr. Fox. Mr. Fox is keen not to bore his audience, so he always brings a different set of hawks each year. This is the Kth annual festival, so he would like to bring the set of performing hawks with the Kth lowest value. Mr. Fox defines the value of a set of hawks as follows the empty set has a value of , and hawk i adds i to the value of a set. So with hawks, the sets in increasing order are , , , , Note that Mr. Fox always brings a nonempty set of hawks. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of festivals under consideration. For each festival, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and K. The next line contains the boolean expression encoding the hawks preferences. Output For the ith festival, print a line containing Case i followed by value of the set of hawks that Mr. Fox brings modulo . Constraints le T le le N le , le K le Expressions contain no more than , characters each. It is guaranteed that there are at least K sets of performing hawks. The boolean expression adheres to the following grammar expression expression expression binaryoperator expression variable binaryoperator variable digit digit variable digit Each hawk appears in the boolean expression exactly once. Whitespace may appear arbitrarily in the expression except within variables to improve readability. Explanation of Sample In the first and second cases, the first performing sets, in order, are , , , , and , with values of , , and respectively. # Fox Lochs Mr. Fox is going on a trip to Scotland to witness its many beautiful lochs Hes heard that skimboarding is a fun pastime, somewhat similar to surfing, and hed like to give it a try while hes there. He soon finds himself on a flat beach by the side of a loch. The beach can be represented by an infinite D plane, with N axisaligned rectangular pools of shallow water on it. The ith pool has a pair of opposite corners at coordinates x, y and x, y. All of the pools can arbitrarily overlap with one another, the result being that theres shallow water everywhere within the union of the pools rectangles including right on its edges, and no water anywhere else Mr. Fox isnt brave enough to venture into the loch itself yet. Mr. Fox would like to get a running start and then launch himself across the water at some location, skimboarding across the pools in a straight line until he hits a point with no water. In other words, his skimboarding debut will consist of a line segment contained within the union of the pools rectangles inclusive of borders. Whats the maximum length this line segment can have Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of places Mr. Fox goes skimboarding. For each place, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers x, y, x, and y. Output For the ith place, print a line containing Case i followed by the length of longest possible skimboarding path rounded to decimal places. Absolute errors of up to e will be ignored. Constraints le T le le N le , le x lt x le , , le y lt y le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, to , is an optimal path. # Fox Locks Mr. Fox has just won the lottery As a result, hes treated himself to some gifts mdash a few socks, a few rocks, a few blocks. oh, and the entire Panama canal system. The system has K canals, the ith of which consists of a line of Ni equallysized sections. The jth section of the ith canal initially contains Wi,j gallons of water. Theres also an initially closed lock a retractable wall between each pair of adjacent sections that is, between sections and , sections and , and so on. As such, there are Ni such locks in the ith canal. The canals are all linked to each other by an additional central hub section also of equal size to the other sections, which initially contains H gallons of water. This section is adjacent to the st section of each of the canals, separated by a special initially closed lock. As such, there are K such central locks. Mr. Fox is relaxing in a yacht oh, right, he also bought himself one of those floating in the central hub section. Just for fun, hed like to raise the water level in this section as high as possible. To do so, he may give any potentially empty sequence of commands to his Panama employees, one per minute. Each command consists of selecting a single lock anywhere in the canal system and toggling it from being closed to being open or vice versa. In the following minute, the water will level out as water tends to do by flowing through open locks such that, for any pair of adjacent sections which are separated by an open lock, they will end up with equal amounts of water. Mr. Fox does need to obey the Panama canal systems safety regulations, however, which impose one restriction on his commands whenever one of the K central locks adjacent to the central hub section is opened, it must be closed a minute later and then never reopened. Mr. Fox loves watching water flow through his locks, especially when it allows his yacht to magically rise up. Wheeeee By commanding his employees carefully, how much water can Mr. Fox get into the central hub section Constraints le T le le K le le H le le Ni le , Ni gt implies Ni ge Ni for le i lt K le Wi,j le Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of canal systems Mr. Fox owns. For each system, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers K and H. Then, K lines follow, the ith of which contains the integer Ni followed by the spaceseparated integers Wi, . Wi,Ni. Output For the ith canal system, print a line containing Case i followed by the maximum amount of water in gallons that can end up in the central hub section, rounded to decimal places. Absolute errors of up to e will be ignored. Explanation of Sample In the first case, the optimal solution is to first open and close the lock between the central hub and canal . This leaves the central hub with . gallons of water. Then, opening the lock between the central hub and canal leaves the central hub with . gallons of water.# Boomerang Constellations The night sky can be modeled as an infinite D plane. There are N stars at distinct positions on this plane, the ith of which is at coordinates Xi, Yi. A boomerang constellation is a pair of distinct equallength line segments which share a single endpoint, such that both endpoints of each segment coincide with a stars location. Two boomerang constellations are distinct if theyre not made up of the same unordered pair of line segments. How many distinct boomerang constellations can you spot Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of nights on which you look out at the sky. For each night, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi. Output For the ith night, print a line containing Case i followed by the number of boomerang constellations in the night sky. Constraints le T le le N le , , le Xi, Yi le , Explanation of Sample On the first night, every pair of stars is a unique distance apart, so there are no boomerang constellations. On the second night, there are boomerang constellations. One of them consists of the line segments , and ,. # High Security A topsecret algorithmic research facility has decided to up its security by hiring guards to keep watch over the premises. After all, they dont want anyone sneaking in and learning the answers to questions such as does P NP and what are the solutions to the Facebook Hacker Cup problems. When viewed from above, the facility can be modeled as a grid G with rows and N columns. The jth cell in the ith row is either empty represented by Gi,j . or occupied by a building Gi,j X, and the grid includes at least one empty cell. Guards may be potentially stationed in any of the empty cells. A guard can see not only their own cell, but also all contiguous empty cells in each of the compass directions up, down, left, and right until the edge of the grid or a building. For example, in the grid below, the guard G can see every cell marked with an asterisk .X.X. GX What is the minimum number of guards required such that every empty cell in the grid can be seen by at least one of them Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of facilities that need guarding. For each facility, there is first a line containing the integer N. The next line contains the grid cells G, to G,N in order. The third line contains the grid cells G, to G,N in order. Output For the ith facility, print a line containing Case i followed by the number of guards required to guard the facility. Constraints le T le le N le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, one solution is to place three guards as follows .G.X.XG. .G.X # Text Editor You have a list of N distinct words, consisting of only lowercase letters. Youd like to print any K words from this list, one per page, in any order. You will accomplish this using a very basic text editor. It supports types of operations typing a letter, deleting the previous letter, and printing the current document. Note that it does not allow the cursor to be moved This means that the first operation may only add a letter to the end of the document, and the second may only delete the last letter if any. Due to issues with memory leakage, you also need to remember to leave the document completely empty after youve printed your K words Whats the minimum number of operations required to get the job done As an example, lets say that you want to print of the following words a hair box awesome hail One optimal sequence of operations is as follows type h, a, i, and r document hair print backspace document hai type l document hail print backspace times document empty type a document a print backspace document empty Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of sets of words you want to print. For each set, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and K. The next N lines contain the set of words, one per line. Output For the ith set of words, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum number of operations required to print K of the words and then leave the document empty. Constraints le T le le K le N le The total length of all N words in each set will be at most , characters. # The Price is Correct Youve managed to become a contestant on the hottest new game show, The Price is Correct After asking you to come on down to the stage, the shows host presents you with a row of N closed boxes, numbered from to N in order, each containing a secret positive integer. A curtain opens to reveal a shiny, new tricycle mdash you recognize it as an expensive, topoftheline model. The host then proceeds to explain the rules you must select a contiguous sequence of the boxes boxes a.b, for some le a le b le N. Your chosen boxes will then be opened, and if the sum of the numbers inside is no greater than the price of the tricycle, you win it Youd sure like to win that tricycle. Fortunately, not only are you aware that its price is exactly P, but youve paid off the host to let you in on the contents of the boxes You know that each box i contains the number Bi. How many different sequences of boxes can you choose such that you win the tricycle Each sequence is defined by its starting and ending box indices a and b. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of times you appear on The Price is Correct. For each show, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and P. The next line contains N spaceseparated integers, B through BN in order. Output For the ith show, print a line containing Case i followed by the number of box sequences that will win you the tricycle. Constraints le T le le N le , le P le , le Bi le , Explanation of Sample In the first case no sequence adds up to more than , so all sequences are winners. In the fourth case, you can select any single box, or the sequences , , and , for total winning sequences.# Boomerang Tournament This weekend, the longawaited BIT Boomerang Invitational Tournament will be taking place N of the finest boomerangists will be competing in a randomlyseeded singleelimination bracket. For those unfamiliar with this tournament format, the process can be modelled as follows The N competitors are arranged in a queue an ordered list, in some order If the queue currently contains only competitor, the tournament ends with them as the champion Otherwise, the first competitors in the front of the queue are removed, and they play a match against one another The winner of that match is reinserted into the queue, at the back Repeat from step The oneonone matches in this tournament are, of course, boomerang duels to the death. If the ith and jth competitors face off against one another, the ith competitor will win if Wi,j . Otherwise, if Wi,j , the jth competitor will win. Note that, for all le i, j le N, Wi,j or , and Wi,i no one will play against themselves anyway, and Wi,j ne Wj,i if i ne j. Those are the only constraints. Its possible that, for example, competitor A can beat B, B can beat C, and C can beat A. Once the tournament is over, each boomerangist is given a placing even if they didnt survive the competition. A given competitor cs placing is an integer one greater than the number of competitors who won strictly more matches than c did. For each boomerangist, youd like to know both the best smallest and the worst largest placing they could possibly end up with, given that the initial ordering of the competitors in step of the tournament is unknown. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of tournaments. For each tournament, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then follow N lines, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Wi, through Wi,N. Output For the ith tournament, print a line containing Case i followed by N lines that each contain two spaceseparated integers. The first integer on the ith line should be the best possible placing for the ith competitor, and the second should be the worst possible placing. Constraints le T le N K where K is an integer and le K le Explanation of Sample In the second tournament, the first competitor will always beat the second competitor, so the first competitor will finish in st place, and the other in nd place. In the third tournament, the first competitor never loses, so they will finish in st place. The fourth competitor never wins, so they will finish tied for rd place with the other competitor who loses their initial match. The other two competitors will either lose their first match if initially paired with the first competitor or their second match if initially paired with the fourth competitor, so they can each finish in nd place, or tied for rd place. # Coding Contest Creation Youve been put in charge of creating the problems for a certain highprofile programming contest series. The series will consist of one or more contests of exactly problems each. Every problem has a difficulty rating an integer between and , inclusive, and the ratings of the problems in each contest must be strictly increasing, but with a difference of no more than between consecutive problems. In other words, if the problems in a contest have difficulties a, b, c, and d in order, then the inequalities a lt b lt c lt d, b a le , c b le , d c le must all hold. Youve been given an ordered list of N problems to use. Being an experienced problemsetter, you may also write some new problems to insert at any positions in the list, each with an integer difficulty between and , inclusive. The final list of problems must still include the original N problems in their original order, though with your new problems optionally mixed in. Once the problem list is finalized, the first problems in order will form a contest, the next problems will form another contest, and so on. Note that the number of problems in the list must be divisible by , and that each of the contests formed must feature a valid ordered set of problems. Whats the minimum number of additional problems you must write in order to create a set of valid contests Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of contest series you need to create. For each series, there is first a line containing the integer N, then a line containing N spaceseparated integers, the ith of which is Di, the difficulty rating of the ith existing problem. Output For the ith series, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum number of additional problems youll need to write. Constraints le T le le N le , le Di le Explanation of Sample In the first series, the four problems given are already a valid contest, so no new problems need to be written. In the second series, the four existing problems most certainly do not form a valid contest, due to the gap between the third and fourth ones one possible way to salvage the situation is to add three new problems with difficulties , and after the third problem, as well as a problem with difficulty at the end, creating two valid contests , , and , , . # Laundro, Matt Matt Laundro is about to engage in his favourite activity mdash doing laundry Hes brought L indistinguishable loads of laundry to his local laundromat, which has N washing machines and M dryers. The ith washing machine takes Wi minutes to wash one load of laundry, and each dryer takes D minutes to dry a load of laundry. At any point in time, each machine may only be processing at most one load of laundry. As one might expect, Matt wants to wash and then dry each of his L loads of laundry. Each load of laundry will go through the following steps in order A nonnegative amount of time after Matt arrives at the laundromat, Matt places the load in an unoccupied washing machine i Wi minutes later, he removes the load from the washing machine, placing it in a temporary holding basket which has unlimited space A nonnegative amount of time later, he places the load in an unoccupied dryer D minutes later, he removes the load from the dryer Matt can instantaneously add laundry to or remove laundry from a machine. Help Matt minimize the amount of time in minutes after he arrives at the laundromat after which he can be done drying all L loads of laundry Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of times Matt goes to the laundromat. For each trip to the laundromat, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers L, N, M, and D in that order. After that is a line containing N spaceseparated integers, the ith of which is Wi. Output For the ith trip, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum time it will take Matt to finish his laundry. Constraints le T le le L le , le N le , le M le , le D le , le Wi le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, Matt has just one load of laundry. He washes it for minutes, and dries it for minutes. In the second case, Matt uses the minute washer for both loads of laundry. The second load finishes at the minute mark, so it finishes drying at the minute mark. # Yachtzee A rich, retired programmer has decided to invest his possibly massive savings into constructing custom yachts for himself. Initially, he has a real amount of dollars, chosen uniformly at random from the range A, B. Constructing a yacht consists of N sequential steps, with the ith step requiring Ci dollars. The programmer blindly pays for the steps in order, until hes either completed all of them, or cant afford the cost of the next step. If the former occurs, he puts his completed yacht aside and restarts the process from the first step with his remaining money he wants as many yachts as possible Otherwise, in the latter case, he immediately stops his project entirely, without spending any additional money on other steps. Whats the expected amount of money which the programmer will be left with once he stops spending it on yachts Your output should have at most absolute or relative error. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of times the programmer embarks on a yachtcreation spree. For each spree, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, A, and B in that order, then a line containing N spaceseparated integers, the ith of which is Ci. Output For the ith spree, print a line containing Case i followed by the expected amount of money the programmer will have left. Constraints le T le le A lt B le , le N le , le Ci le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, the programmer starts with between and dollars. The programmers initial amount of money will fall into one of the ranges , or , or , . If it falls into the first range, the programmer will end with , dollars. If it falls into the second range, the programmer will end with , dollars. If the programmer starts with exactly dollars, hell end with dollars. # Boomerang Decoration As an experienced boomerangist, you take great pride in your trusty boomerang, and youd like to be able to show it off Unfortunately, it doesnt look quite right yet. Like all boomerangs, yours is symmetrical in shape, with two N millimetrelong halves. However, whats not necessarily symmetrical is its paint job mdash each millimetrelong section of each half has been painted some color. There are possible colors, represented by uppercase letters A to Z, and the ith section of the left half counting from the left end has color Ai, while the ith section of the right half counting from the right end has color Bi. Youd like your boomerang to be completely symmetrical which is the case when the ith section in the left half has the same color as the ith section in the right half, for all le i le N as soon as possible To that end, youre enlisting the help of your two best friends, Jack and Jill, to repaint the left half of your boomerang until it matches the right half. Every second, Jack may paint over a prefix of the left half with a solid color, while Jill may simultaneously paint over a disjoint suffix. In other words, every second, Jack and Jill will each select a color from A to Z, Jack will select a value x le x le N, and Jill will select a value y le y le N x. Then, Jack will repaint the first x sections of the left half of the boomerang with his color, while Jill will repaint the last y sections of the left half of the boomerang with her color. Painting over a section completely overwrites its previous color. Whats the minimum amount of time in seconds it can take Jack and Jill to make your boomerang completely symmetrical Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of boomerangs you want to decorate. For each boomerang, there is first a line containing the integer N, then two lines that each contain a string of length N. The ith character of the second line is Ai. The ith character of the third line is Bi. Output For the ith boomerang, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum number of seconds it will take Jack and Jill to make your boomerangs paint job symmetrical. Constraints le T le le N le , Explanation of Sample The first boomerang is already symmetrical, so no work needs to be done. The second boomerang can be made symmetrical in second. Jack will cover the first millimetre with C, and Jill will cover the third millimetre with A. The third boomerang takes seconds to paint. One possible solution is for Jack to paint the first two millimetres with A and then the first millimetre with B. # Carnival Coins At the local carnival you find a midway game advertising TONS OF FABULOUS PRIZES. Certainly a fabulous prize or two would make your time worthwhile. It turns out that TONS is actually a bit of of an understatement. There are in fact infinitely many prizes available. Consequently, the game operator is willing to give you a chance to score multiple prizes in a single game for a nominal fee. After you hand over your money, the game operator gives you N coins. Each coin has the same probability p of landing on heads when flipped and consequently probability p of landing on tails. She also gives you a goal, an integer K. As long as you still have some coins remaining, you can select any number of them and flip them all simultaneously. These coins are then taken away. If at least K of them land on heads, you win a prize. If you play optimally, what is the expected number of prizes youll manage to win Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of times you play the game. For each attempt, there is a line containing the spaceseparated values N, K and p. N and K are integers, and p is given with at most decimal places. Output For the ith attempt, print a line containing Case i followed by the expected number of prizes youll win. Your output should have at most absolute or relative error. Constraints le T le le N le , le K le , le p le Explanation of Sample In the first case, flipping the coins together gives you a chance of winning a prize. If you flip them separately, you get a chance on each flip. The latter approach is better, giving you expected prize rather than . expected prizes. In the second case, it is optimal to partition the ten coins into two sets of five. In the third case, it is optimal to flip all ten coins at once. # Costly Labels Youve got yourself an unrooted tree with N nodes mdash that is, a connected, undirected graph with N nodes numbered from to N, and N edges. The ith edge connects nodes Ai and Bi. Youd like to spend as little money as possible to label each node with a number from to K, inclusive. It costs Ci,j dollars to label the ith node with the number j. Additionally, after the whole tree has been labelled, you must pay P more dollars for each node which has at least one pair of neighbours that share the same label as each other. In other words, for each node u, you must pay P dollars if there exist two other nodes v and w which are both adjacent to node u, such that the labels on nodes v and w are equal note that node us label is irrelevant. You only pay the penalty of P dollars once for a given central node u, even if it has multiple pairs of neighbours which satisfy the above condition. Whats the minimum cost in dollars to label all N nodes Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of trees. For each tree, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, K, and P. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ci, through Ci,K in order. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi Output For the ith tree, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum cost to label all of the trees nodes. Constraints le T le le N le , le K le le P le , le Ci,j le , le Ai, Bi le N Explanation of Sample In the first case, there is only one node which must be painted the only possible color for dollars. In the second case, there is only one color, so a penalty of dollars must be paid since node has two neighbors with the same color. In total we pay dollars. In the third case, its optimal to paint nodes and with color , and node with color . The total cost is dollars.# Snakes and Ladders As the owner of a vast collection of fine ladders, you would like to display them to potential onlookers. Youve decided to stand your N ladders up vertically, with their bases at distinct points on a horizontal number line. The ith ladders base is at position Xi, and it has height Hi. The local snake population has taken an interest in your ladders. As everyone knows, snakes love nothing more than to suspend themselves horizontally above the ground In particular, a snake of length L is able to suspend itself between the tops of two ladders a and b if and only if they meet the following conditions the ladders are exactly L units apart Xa Xb L the ladders are of equal height Ha Hb there are no taller ladders in between them there exists no ladder c such that minXa, Xb lt Xc lt maxXa, Xb and Hc gt Ha A number of snakes are planning to take up residence amongst your ladders. In particular, for every position in which a snake could suspend itself in other words, for every distinct, unordered pair of ladders a and b, one snake will move in of the appropriate length. Youll have no choice but to take care of these snakes, of course. To feed a snake of length L, itll cost you L dollars daily. To prepare your budget, youd like to calculate how many dollars youll be spending each day on your new pets Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of sets of ladders you own. For each set, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers, Xi and Hi. Output For the ith set of ladders, print a line containing Case i followed by the daily feeding cost of all the snakes that move in, modulo . Constraints le T le le N le , le Xi, Hi le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, one snake will move in between your two ladders. It will have length , so it will cost dollars a day to feed. In the third case, one snake will move in between the ladders of height , and another will move in between the ladders at X and X . The first snake has length , and the second has length . The total cost is therefore . # Boomerang Farm Youre a proud boomerang farmer, like your father before you and his father before him, but quite unlike his grandfather. Your boomerang field can be modelled as a D grid of square cells, with M rows and N columns. Each cell contains a boomerang lying flat on the ground, in one of four possible orientations called A, B, C, and D For example, your field might look as follows As you can see, there are points at which pairs of boomerangs are touching one another at their endpoints. As all boomerang farmers know, that could stunt the growth of your precious boomerangs Fortunately, you can salvage the situation by rotating boomerangs by integer multiples of degrees. In particular, rotating a single boomerang by degrees either clockwise for example, changing its orientation from A to B or counterclockwise for example, from A to D takes minute. You may rotate a single boomerang multiple times. You have K minutes of free time that you can use to fix up your field as well as you can though you dont have to use all of this time. Whats the minimum number of pairs of touching boomerangs that you can end up with at the end of this time For example, given minutes to work on the above field, you could rotate the topright boomerang counterclockwise and the bottomleft one clockwise to end up with no touching boomerangs Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of fields. For each field, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers M, N, and K. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains a string of length N representing the ith row of the field as described above. Output For the ith field, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum number of touching boomerang pairs that will remain after you work the field optimally. Constraints le T le le M, N le le K le , Explanation of Sample The fifth field is the example given above. # Boomerang Umbrella Uh oh, the weather forecast predicts that a rainstorm will soon break out over the infinite, dimensional number line you call home The forecast is remarkably precise. In fact, its known that exactly N raindrops will fall, with the ith drop striking the number line at position Xi exactly Ki seconds after the start of the storm. No two drops will strike the number line at exactly the same position and time. Youd like to stop as many of the drops as possible, but you dont exactly have an umbrella. so your boomerang will have to do. Your plan is as follows Stand at some possibly nonintegral position A on the number line, and choose some other position B A ne B. At some point in time, throw your boomerang from A to B. This point in time can be arbitrarily long before or after the start of the storm the storm wont start for a while, so you have time to prepare. The boomerang will travel along your chosen line segment at a constant speed of S units per second. Make your boomerang spin in place at position B for some nonnegative amount of time which can be arbitrarily large. Have your boomerang travel back along the line segment from B to A at the same speed, and catch it as soon as it gets back to position A. During the inclusive time interval from when you throw the boomerang to when you catch it again, if the boomerang is ever at exactly the same position as a raindrop at exactly the time that it strikes the number line, it will intercept it. just like an umbrella Whats the maximum number of raindrops you can intercept in this way with a single throw Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of rainstorms. For each rainstorm, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and S. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Xi and Ki. Output For the ith rainstorm, print a line containing Case i followed by the maximum number of raindrops you can stop. Constraints le T le le N le , le S le , le Xi, Ki le , Explanation of Sample In the first rainstorm, one solution is to stand at X and let your boomerang spin at X until it intercepts all three raindrops that will fall at that position. In the second rainstorm, one solution is to stand at X and throw your boomerang towards X as soon as the first raindrop hits it. If you recall your boomerang as soon as it reaches X , it will hit the second raindrop and be back just in time to hit the third.# Chess Showdown Two chess grandmasters, Andrew and Jacob, are having an epic chess showdown to determine which of them is the uncontested best player in the world The showdown consists of N games. In each game, one player plays as White and the other plays as Black. In the first game, Andrew plays as White. After each game, the player who loses it chooses which color theyll play as in the following game. However, the victor of the final game wins the entire showdown, regardless of the results of the previous games In each game, each player may decide to attempt to win or attempt to lose If both players play to win, then Andrew wins with probability Ww if he plays as White and loses with probability Ww, as there are no draws at this high level of play. Similarly, he wins with probability Wb if he plays as Black. If both players play to lose achieved by tipping over their own king as quickly as possible, then Andrew loses with probability Lw if he plays as White, and loses with probability Lb if he plays as Black. If exactly one player wants to win a game, then hes guaranteed to win it. Assuming both players play optimally in an attempt to win the showdown, what is Andrews probability of besting Jacob Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of showdowns between Andrew and Jacob. For each showdown, there is first a line containing the integer N, then a line containing the spaceseparated values Ww and Wb, then a line containing the spaceseparated values Lw and Lb. These probabilities are given with at most decimal places. Output For the ith showdown, print a line containing Case i followed by the probability that Andrew wins the entire showdown. Your output should have at most absolute or relative error. Constraints le T le , le N le , le Ww, Wb, Lw, Lb le Explanation of Sample In the first showdown, Andrew plays White and wins the only game with probability . In the second showdown, Jacob will throw the first game to force Andrew to play Black in the second game. Jacob can guarantee a loss in the first game, and Andrew will win the second game with probability . # Matt Laundro Matt Laundro is about to engage in his favourite activity mdash doing laundry Hes brought L loads of laundry to his local laundromat, which has recently been cracking down on excessive washer and dryer usage. It turns out the other customers werent very thrilled when they saw Matt using a billion washers and dryers simultaneously, so hes now been restricted to just one washer and one dryer. Matts ith load of laundry takes Wi minutes to wash, and Di minutes to dry. As is usually the case with laundry, each load takes at least as long to dry as it does to wash. At any point in time, each machine may only be processing at most one load of laundry. As one might expect, Matt wants to wash and then dry each of his L loads of laundry. Unfortunately, the laundromat closes in K minutes, so he might not be able to get through every load. But hell try his best If he chooses to wash and dry the ith load of laundry, it will go through the following steps in order A nonnegative amount of time after Matt arrives at the laundromat, Matt places the load in the washing machine Wi minutes later, he removes the load from the washing machine, placing it in a temporary holding basket which has unlimited space A nonnegative amount of time later, he places the load in the dryer Di minutes later, he removes the load from the dryer Matt can instantaneously add laundry to or remove laundry from a machine. He can choose to wash and dry any of his loads and they can be washed and dried in any order as long as they each follow the steps above. Help Matt maximize the number of loads he can finish washing and drying in K minutes, and amongst all the ways he could finish that many loads, find the minimum amount of time it will take for all of those loads to be washed and dried. Input In this problem, the sequences W and D are generated using a pseudorandom number generator. The generator first produces two lengthL sequences X and Y. X and Y are given, and the remaining terms X.XL and Y.YL are computed as follows Xi Ax Xi Bx mod Cx Yi Ay Yi By mod Cy After X and Y are generated, W and D are computed as follows Wi min Xi, Yi Di max Xi, Yi Input begins with an integer T, the number of times Matt goes to the laundromat. For each trip to the laundromat, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers L and K, then a line containing the spaceseparated integers Ax, Bx, Cx, and X, then a line containing the spaceseparated integers Ay, By, Cy, and Y. Output For the ith trip, print a line containing Case i followed by the maximum number of loads Matt can finish before the laundromat closes, and the minimum amount of time it will take to finish that many. Constraints le T le le L le , le K le , le Ax, Bx, Cx le , le Ay, By, Cy le , le X le Cx le Y le Cy Explanation of Sample In the first case, W and D are the same , , . Matt can finish the first three loads in minutes. He starts by washing the third load, which takes minutes. Then, while that load is drying he can wash the first and second loads. The second case is the same, except Matt now has just enough time to wash all of the loads. He can start by washing the fourth load, which takes minutes. In the third case, W , , , and D , , , . # Public Transportation You live on a circular road, L metres in length. Any point on the road can be referred to by a real number x le x lt L, the distance along the road clockwise from its Northmost point to that point in metres. Fortunately for you, this road is served by public transportation There are N bus stops at distinct, integral points along the road. Unfortunately for you, due to budget cuts exactly K of these N stops will soon be removed. The group of K removed stops will be chosen uniformly at random from the set of all possible groups of K stops. Youd like to calculate the expected distance youll have to walk from a random point along the road, chosen uniformly at random from the interval , L, to the nearest of the remaining N K bus stops, in metres. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of roads. For each road, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, K, and L. Then follows a line containing a string of length L. This string consists of only the characters and . There is a bus stop at position x if and only if the x th character of the string is . Exactly N of the characters will be . Output For the ith road, print a line containing Case i followed by the expected distance youll have to walk from a random point to the nearest bus stop, in metres. You should output the exact answer modulo . That is, if the exact answer is a b where a and b are integers, you should output a b mod where b is the modular inverse of b mod . Constraints le T le le N le , le K lt N le L le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, the single existing stop will remain untouched. If your starting position is smaller than or greater than , youll walk clockwise to it, for a distance of between m and m. Otherwise, youll walk counterclockwise to it, also for a distance of between m and m. As such, your expected distance to walk will be m. In the third case, one of the stops will be removed at random. Whichever one is removed, your situation will be similar to that of the first case the distance youll have to walk will be uniformly distributed between m and m, for an expected distance of m. In the fourth case, the exact answer is . or , which is when taken modulo .# Boomerang Crews Its time to settle things once and for all. Your boomerang crew has decided to challenge their rivals to a boomerang crew battle Your crew has N members with strengths A.N, while the opposing crew has M members with strengths B.M. The crew battle will proceed as follows Each crew will arrange its members in a line, in some order. A throwing contest will take place between the first person in your line, and the first person in your opponents line. Whoever loses the contest see below for details will leave their line permanently, while the winner will stay at the front of their line. If one of the lines has become empty, that crew loses and the crew battle concludes. Otherwise, back to step . However, youre not about to play fair with your enemies mdash youve got the following things going for you You will decide the initial ordering of members for both crews in step of the crew battle. When a member of your crew with strength S competes in a throwing contest, theyll throw their boomerang a distance of S feet. On the other hand, due to a bit of subtle poisoning youve done in advance, your enemies will get tired after each throw. In particular, when a member of the rival crew with strength S competes in a throwing contest, such that theyve already competed in and won C throwing contests previously, theyll throw their boomerang a distance of maxS CD, feet where D is a set constant. In each throwing contest, your crews member will win if their throw distance is greater than or equal to their opponents. Despite these advantages, its possible that youll still be unable to emerge victorious. However, whether or not you do, youd like to maximize the number of throwing contests that members of your crew win over the course of the crew battle given that you choose optimal initial orderings for both lines. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of battles. For each battle, there are three lines. The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N, M, and D. The second line contains the N spaceseparated integers A to AN. The third line contains the M spaceseparated integers B to BM. Output For the ith battle, print a line containing Case i followed by the maximum number of throwing contests that your crew can win. Constraints le T le le N, M le , le Ai, Bi, D le , Explanation of Sample In the first battle, your single member cannot beat theirs. In the second battle, they can just barely. In the fourth battle, one solution is to arrange their crew as , and your crew as , to emerge victorious in which case, throwing contests will occur, of which your crew will win the last three.# Grundy Graph Alice and Bob are spending the day in the local library, learning about player zerosum games. One of the books theyre reading, Grundy Numbers For Fun And Profit by Nim Nimberly, has an interactive insert with a bunch of graphs and instructions for a game where the players take turns colouring each graphs vertices. Each game starts with a directed graph that has N vertices, numbered from to N, all of which are initially uncoloured, and M edges. The ith edge goes from vertex Ai to vertex Bi. No two edges connect the same pair of vertices in the same direction, and no edge connects a vertex to itself. Alice goes first and colours vertices and . She must colour one of these two vertices black, and the other one white. Bob then takes his turn and similarly colours vertices and , one of them black and the other one white. This continues with Alice colouring vertices and , Bob colouring and , and so on until every vertex is coloured. At the end of the game, Alice wins if there are no edges going from a black vertex to a white one. Bob wins if such an edge exists. Who will win if Alice and Bob play optimally Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of graphs. For each graph, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then M lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi . Output For the ith graph, print a line containing Case i followed by the winner of the game, either Alice or Bob. Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , le Ai, Bi, le N Explanation of Sample For the first graph, Alice can color vertex white and vertex black. Since all edges start at vertex , Alice will win. For the second graph, Alice cant control the color of vertex . If Bob makes it white, then one of the two edges must be from a black vertex to a white vertex, so Bob wins.# Maximinimax Flow Youre given an undirected, connected graph with N nodes numbered from to N and N edges. The ith edge connects distinct nodes Ai and Bi, and has a capacity of Ci. No two edges directly connect the same pair of nodes. M operations will be performed on this graph, one after another. The nature of the ith operation is described by the value of Oi If Oi , then the ith operation is an update, in which the capacity of the Xith edge is changed to be Yi. Otherwise, if Oi , then the ith operation is a query, in which you must determine the maximinimax flow in the graph after Zi edge augmentations. What do any of those terms mean Lets define them An edge augmentation is a temporary increase of a certain edges capacity by for the current query. The max flow from node u to a different node v is the usual definition of maximum flow in computer science hopefully youre familiar with it, with node u being the source and node v being the sink. Each edge may transport flow in either direction, so it may be thought of as two directed edges one in each direction, both with the same capacity. The minimax flow in the graph is the smallest max flow value across all pairs of distinct nodes. In other words, min le u, v le N, u ne v Fu, v, where Fu, v is the max flow from node u to node v. The maximinimax flow in the graph after x edge augmentations is the largest possible minimax flow which the graph can have after x optimal edge augmentations are applied. Note that each edge can be augmented any nonnegative number of times as long as the total number of augmentations in the graph is x, and that the chosen edge augmentations are temporary mdash they do not change the graph for future operations. To reduce the size of the output, you should simply output one integer, the sum of the answers to all of the queries. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of graphs. For each graph, there is a first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai, Bi, and Ci. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Oi, Xi, and Yi if Oi or Oi and Zi if Oi . Output For the ith graph, print a line containing Case i followed by the sum of the answers to all queries on that graph. Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , le Ai, Bi, Xi le N le Ci, Yi le , le Zi le , le Oi le Explanation of Sample In the first graph, the max flow between any two nodes is , so the minimax flow is also . If we do no edge augmentations, then the maximinimax flow is still . In the second graph, the maximinimax flow is initially , but is then increased to before the second query for a total of . In the third graph, the maximinimax flow is initially between node and any other node. If we augment the edge from node to node twice, then the max flow between node and any other node is now . The max flow between any other pair of nodes was already greater than , so the minimax flow is now . We cant do any better than that, so the maximinimax flow is also . # RNG Youre playing a video game that features N different areas, numbered from to N. There are M oneway paths that each connect two areas. The ith path runs from area Ai to a different area Bi. No pair of paths directly connect the same pair of areas, and for every area its impossible to start at that area and follow a nonempty sequence of paths to return to that area. In other words, the games layout is a directed acyclic graph. You start in area . K other distinct areas each contain an item to collect mdash the ith of these is area Ii. As soon as youve visited these K areas at least once each, you win Youd like to do so as fast as possible. At any point in time, if there are no outgoing paths leading away from your current area, you automatically respawn in area after a delay of R seconds. Otherwise, you get to choose one such path and attempt to follow it. Unfortunately, this game relies entirely on Random Number Generation to determine whether or not youll be successful, regardless of your skill. In particular, with probability P, youll successfully travel along your chosen path for D seconds, ending up in a new area. On the other hand, with probability P, youll instead perish and respawn in area after a delay of R seconds. Whats the minimum expected time for you to collect all K items, given that you play optimally This is guaranteed to be possible mdash that is, all K areas that contain items are reachable from area . Your output should have at most absolute or relative error. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of times you play the game. For each time, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, M, and K. The second line contains the spaceseparated integers D and R. The third line contains the real value P which is given with at most decimal places. The fourth line contains the K spaceseparated integers I to IK. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Output For the ith time you play the game, print a line containing Case i followed by the expected time it will take you to collect all of the items if you play optimally. Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , le K le min, N . le P le . le D, R le , le Ai, Bi le N le Ii le N The answer for each game is guaranteed to be less than . Explanation of Sample In the first game, it takes you seconds to reach the only item, and then you win. Theres no chance of failure. The second game is the same as the first, but now you fail to reach the item with probability . On average you will fail once before reaching the item, so youll incur an average penalty of seconds on top of the seconds it takes you to succeed, for a total of seconds. # Rainbow String You have a string S consisting of N uppercase letters. This is no ordinary string, however mdash its a rainbow string Every letter has a colour, one of red, green, or blue it might be ambitious to call this a rainbow, but close enough. The colour of the ith letter in S is indicated by the ith letter in a secondary string C which also consists of N uppercase letters, with the three possible values R, G, and B representing the colors red, green, and blue respectively. Youd like to answer Q questions about your rainbow string. The ith question asks Whats the Kith lexicographically smallest substring of S which has length Li, includes at least one green letter, and includes no red letters Note that, when considering the list of valid substrings of which to determine the Kith lexicographically smallest one, substrings which are equal to one another but occur at different positions in S are distinct Additionally, Ki is guaranteed to be no larger than the number of such valid substrings. For example, consider S ABABAB, C GGBGRG, and Li . The lexicographicallysorted list of valid substrings of S those which have length , include at least one green letter, and include no red letters is as follows AB starting at index AB starting at index BA starting at index Therefore, if Ki , the answer would be AB. Ki can be no larger than in this example. To reduce the size of the output, you should simply output integers, with the ith of them being the total number of times that the ith letter of the alphabet appears throughout the answers to the Q questions. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of rainbow strings you own. For each rainbow string, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and Q. The second line contains the lengthN string S denoting the alphabetic characters in the rainbow string. The third line contains the lengthN string C denoting the colours of each letter of the rainbow string, as described above. Then, Q more lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Li and Ki. Output For the ith rainbow string, print a line containing Case i followed by spaceseparated integers denoting the frequency of each letter amongst the answers to all of the questions, as described above. Constraints le T le le N le , le Q le , le Li, Ki le N Explanation of Sample For the first string, the answers to the three questions are AB, AB, and BA respectively. A and B each show up times in these answers.# Snake and Ladder Some time has passed since you took in the local population of snakes, feeding them every day and allowing them to live peacefully amongst your ladders. Unfortunately, your neighbours have not been thrilled about living next to billions of serpents, so theyve filed complaints to the mayor As a result, almost all of your snakes and ladders have been forcibly evicted, leaving you with only one of each for company. Your ladder has N horizontal rungs, numbered to N from bottom to top. Like all ladders, it also has vertical rails, with rail on the left and rail on the right. To improve its appearance, youve allowed some plants to grow all over it. Notably, there are K flowers at distinct locations on the ladder, with the ith flower at the intersection of rung Ri and rail Ci. Your snake loves to sleep on the ladder. It always places its head at the intersection of some rung and some rail, and from there, each subsequent segment of its body extends up, down, left, or right to follow a rung or rail to another intersection. The snake likes to be spread out, but hates touching flowers, so it insists that the path that its body takes must not touch any intersection more than once, and must not touch any intersection that has a flower. Conveniently, the snake is exactly long enough to theoretically pass through all intersections that dont have flowers mdash that is, if consecutive rungs and rails are unit apart from one another, then the snake has a length of N K units. Note that your snake may have length in which case itll only occupy a single intersection. The diagram below which corresponds to the fourth sample case illustrates a valid way in which the snake can arrange itself on a ladder with rungs and flower Can you help your snake count the number of different ways in which it can position itself on the ladder, such that it covers all of the intersections which dont contain flowers An arrangement of the snake is defined by an ordered sequence of intersections that it passes through, starting from its head. You only need to compute the answer modulo . Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of ladders. For each ladder, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and K. Then K lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ri and Ci . Output For the ith ladder, print a line containing Case i followed by the number of ways in which the snake can be arranged, modulo . Constraints le T le le N le le K le min, N le Ri le N le Ci le Explanation of Sample For the first ladder, the snake can place its head in any of the intersections, and from each one it can arrange itself in ways for ways total. For the second ladder, the flowers prevent the snake from crossing from the top intersections to the bottom or vice versa. For the third ladder, there are possible intersections at which the snake can place its head which yield valid arrangement each.# Fighting the Zombie Okay, Wizard, cast your spell But which of your many spells to cast In the everpopular roleplaying game Dungeons Dragons, or DD, you determine a spells damage by rolling polyhedral dice with , , , or sides. Since theres a lot of dicerolling involved, players use shorthand to denote which dice should be rolled. XdY means roll a Ysided die X times, and sum the rolls. Sometimes, you must add or subtract a value Z after you finish rolling, in which case the notation is XdYZ or XdYZ respectively. For example, if you roll d, youll end up with a result between and inclusive. If you roll d, your result will be between and inclusive. In DD, wizards are powerful but flimsy spellcasters. As a wizard fighting a zombie, your best strategy is to maximize the chance that you can kill the zombie with a single spell before it has a chance to retaliate. What spell should you cast Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of zombies youll fight. For each zombie, there are two lines. The first contains two integers, H and S, the minimum amount of damage it takes to defeat the zombie, and the number of spells you have prepared, respectively. The second line contains S spell descriptions separated by single spaces. A spell description is simply the amount of damage a spell does in the notation described above. Output For each zombie, print a line containing the probability of defeating the zombie if you select your spell optimally. Absolute and relative errors of up to e will be ignored. Constraints le T le , le H le , le S le Additionally, the following constraints will hold for each spell le X le Y isin , , , le Z le , if Z is specified. X, Y, and Z will be integers with no leading zeros. Explanation of Sample In the first case, you can guarantee a kill with the first spell, which must always do at least damage. In the third case, your first spell is the best. If you roll a , youll do the requisite damage. The second spell requires rolling a on two dice rather than just one, and the third spell requires rolling a on all three dice.# Lazy Loading Wilson works for a moving company. His primary duty is to load household items into a moving truck. Wilson has a bag that he uses to move these items. He puts a bunch of items in the bag, moves them to the truck, and then drops the items off. Wilson has a bit of a reputation as a lazy worker. Julie is Wilsons supervisor, and shes keen to make sure that he doesnt slack off. She wants Wilson to carry at least pounds of items in his bag every time he goes to the truck. Luckily for Wilson, his bag is opaque. When he carries a bagful of items, Julie can tell how many items are in the bag based on the height of the stack in the bag, and she can tell the weight of the top item. She cant, however, tell how much the other items in the bag weigh. She assumes that every item in the bag weighs at least as much as this top item, because surely Wilson, as lazy as he is, would at least not be so dense as to put heavier items on top of lighter ones. Alas, Julie is woefully ignorant of the extent of Wilsons lack of dedication to his duty, and this assumption is frequently incorrect. Today there are N items to be moved, and Wilson, paid by the hour as he is, wants to maximize the number of trips he makes to move all of them to the truck. What is the maximum number of trips Wilson can make without getting berated by Julie Note that Julie is not aware of what items are to be moved today, and she is not keeping track of what Wilson has already moved when she examines each bag of items. She simply assumes that each bagful contains a total weight of at least k w where k is the number of items in the bag, and w is the weight of the top item. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of days Wilson works at his job. For each day, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then there are N lines, the ith of which contains a single integer, the weight of the ith item, Wi. Output For the ith day, print a line containing Case i followed by the maximum number of trips Wilson can take that day. Constraints le T le le N le le Wi le On every day, it is guaranteed that the total weight of all of the items is at least pounds. Explanation of Sample In the first case, Wilson can make two trips by stacking a pound item on top of a pound item, making the bag appear to contain pounds. In the second case, Wilson needs to put all the items in the bag at once and can only make one trip. In the third case, one possible solution is to put the items with odd weight in the bag for the first trip, and then the items with even weight in the bag for the second trip, making sure to put the heaviest item on top.# Progress Pie Some progress bars fill you with anticipation. Some are finished before you know it and make you wonder why there was a progress bar at all. Some progress bars progress at a pleasant, steady rate. Some are chaotic, lurching forward and then pausing for long periods. Some seem to slow down as they go, never quite reaching . Some progress bars are in fact not bars at all, but circles. On your screen is a progress pie, a sort of progress bar that shows its progress as a sector of a circle. Envision your screen as a square on the plane with its bottomleft corner at , and its upperright corner at , . Every point on the screen is either white or black. Initially, the progress is , and all points on the screen are white. When the progress percentage, P, is greater than , a sector of angle P degrees is colored black, anchored by the line segment from the center of the square to the center of the top side, and proceeding clockwise. While you wait for the progress pie to fill in, you find yourself thinking about whether certain points would be white or black at different amounts of progress. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of points youre curious about. For each point, there is a line containing three spaceseparated integers, P, the amount of progress as a percentage, and X and Y, the coordinates of the point. Output For the ith point, print a line containing Case i followed by the color of the point, either black or white. Constraints le T le , le P, X, Y le Whenever a point X, Y is queried, its guaranteed that all points within a distance of of X, Y are the same color as X, Y. Explanation of Sample In the first case all of the points are white, so the point at , is of course white. In the second case, is close to the filledin sector of the circle, but its still white. In the third case, the filledin sector of the circle now covers , coloring it black. # Beach Umbrellas N groups of people are heading to the beach today The ith group is bringing a circular umbrella with a radius Ri meters. The beach has M acceptable points at which umbrellas may be screwed into the sand, arranged in a line with meter between each adjacent pair of points. Each group of people will choose one such point at which to position the center of their umbrella. Of course, its no good if any pair of umbrellas collide that is, if the intersection of their circles has a positive area. The N groups will work together to place their umbrellas such that this doesnt happen. However, theyre wondering in how many distinct ways that can be accomplished. Two arrangements are considered to be distinct if they involve at least one group placing their umbrella in a different spot. As this quantity may be very large, theyre only interested in its value modulo ,. Note that it might be impossible for all of the groups to validly place their umbrellas, yielding an answer of . Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of days the beach is open. For each day, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers, N and M. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains a single integer, Ri. Output For the ith day, print a line containing Case i followed by the number of valid umbrella arrangements, modulo ,. Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , le Ri le , Explanation of Sample In the second case there are six possibilities. If the radius umbrella is placed at the farleft point, then the radius umbrella can be placed at either of the two rightmost points. If the radius umbrella is placed at the second point from the left, then the radius umbrella must be placed at the rightmost point. Thats three possibilities so far, and we can mirror them to produce three more.# Fighting the Zombies In the everpopular roleplaying game Dungeons Dragons, or DD, some wizards enhance their skills by training as geometers, specialist spellcasters who rely on the inherent magical properties of geometric forms. Unlike lowlevel wizards who may be able to fight only a single zombie at a time, you, the budding geometer, are ready and able to fight mediumsized hordes There are N zombies on an infinite D plane, with the ith one at coordinates Xi, Yi. You have two spells at your disposal, but you can only cast each one once. Youll first cast the functionspell Movex, y, r, dx, dy. Each of its five parameters can be any real number, though r must be positive. Upon performing this spell, each zombie initially within the circle centered at coordinates x, y and having radius r will have its coordinates translated by dx, dy. In other words, it will have dx added to its xcoordinate, and dy added to its ycoordinate. Zombies on the border of the circle are also affected. Youll then cast the functionspell Destroyx, y. Each of its two parameters can be any real number. Upon performing this spell, each zombie currently within the axisaligned square centered at coordinates x, y and having sidelength R will be destroyed. Zombies on the border of the square are also affected. Whats the largest number of zombies that can be destroyed by this combination of functionspells Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of zombie hordes you fight. For each case, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers, N and R. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains spaceseparated integers, Xi and Yi. Output For the ith case, print a line containing Case i followed by the maximum number of zombies you can slay with your spells. Constraints le T le le N le le Xi, Yi le , le R le , It is guaranteed that no two zombies are initially at the same point, though zombies may later be moved such that there are multiple at the same coordinates. Explanation of Sample In the first case shown in the pictures above, one optimal strategy is to first cast Move., ., ., , moving zombies, and then cast Destroy., ., destroying zombies.# Manic Moving Thanks to his tireless hard work, Wilson has been promoted and now gets to drive his moving companys trucks No, he cant believe it either. The moving company services a region that has N towns, with M roads running amongst them. The ith road connects two different towns Ai and Bi, requires Gi litres of gas to drive along, and can be traversed in either direction. There may be multiple roads running directly between any given pair of towns. Today, Wilson has been scheduled to transport K families belongings. The ith family is moving from town Si to a different town Di. Wilson and his truck will be starting off the day at the company headquarters in town . For each family, hell need to drive to their starting town by following a sequence of roads, load his truck there, and at some point later, arrive at their destination town to unload their belongings. His truck is large enough to fit at most families sets of belongings at a time, meaning that he doesnt necessarily need to deliver each load immediately after picking it up. However, Wilson has been instructed that the K families must be helped strictly in order. In particular, if i lt j, then the ith familys belongings must be loaded before the jth familys belongings are loaded, and the ith familys belongings must be delivered before the jth familys belongings are delivered. Although Wilsons wages are higher than ever, he does have to pay for the trucks gas out of his own pocket, so its in his best interest to get the job done while burning through as little of it as possible. Of course, hell still need to be careful to follow his companys strict rules regarding the relative order of the families loads and unloads, to avoid getting fired. That being said, its a possibility for it to be impossible to even complete all of the requested moves, in which case Wilson will simply call it a day and stay home instead. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of sets of families Wilson needs to move. For each case, there is first a line containing three spaceseparated integers, N, M, and K. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains spaceseparated integers, Ai, Bi, and Gi. Then, K lines follow, the ith of which contains spaceseparated integers, Si and Di. Output For the ith case, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum amount of gas required for Wilson to validly complete his delivery schedule, or if it cant be done. Constraints le T le le N le le M le , le K le , le Ai, Bi le N, Ai ne Bi le Si, Di le N, Si ne Di le Gi le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, Wilson drives to town , and then drives the first familys belongings back to town . Thats litres gas so far. Then Wilson drives to city more litres of gas, picks up the remaining belongings, and drives them all to town litres of gas. A grand total of litres of gas. In the fourth case, Wilson cant reach town in order to complete the nd and rd families moves.# Pie Progress Some pies are sweet, full of fruit and jam and sugar. Some pies are savory, full of meat and potatoes and spices. Some pies are in fact not pies at all but tarts or galettes. This probably wont stop you from eating them. Every single day for N days, youre determined to eat a pie for dinner. Every morning, youll take a trip to your local pie shop, and buy or more of their pies. Every night, youll eat one pie that youve bought. Pies never go bad, so you dont need to eat a pie on the same day that you bought it. You may instead eat one that you purchased on an earlier day. On the ith day, the shop has M pies for sale, with the jth of these pies costing Ci,j dollars. You can choose to buy any possibly empty subset of them. However, this shop has measures in place to protect itself against crazy pie fanatics buying out its products too quickly. In particular, if you buy p pies on a single day, you must pay an additional tax of p dollars. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of times you go on a pieeating spree. For each case, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers, N and M. Then, N lines follow, each containing M spaceseparated integers. The jth integer on the ith line is Ci,j. Output For the ith case, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum you need to pay to eat a pie every day. Constraints le T le le N, M le le Ci,j le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, you should buy both pies on the first day, for a total cost of . On the second day you should buy one pie for . On the third day you can eat one of the spare pies you bought on the first day. In the third case, you should buy and eat the cheapest pie every day, for a daily cost of , and a total cost of . In the fourth case, one possible solution is to buy two pies on the first day , two pies on the second day , and one pie on the third day for a total cost of . On the fourth and fifth days you can eat your two spare pies from the first and second days.# Big Top Come one, come all The most famous circus troupe in all the land is on tour Having just arrived in a new location, theyre eager to set up their big top and showcase worldclass acts of acrobatics and comedy for their audience. Looking at the tent from the side as a cross section, it will be set up along a onedimensional strip of ground. N vertical poles will be placed in the ground, one after another, with the ith pole at a position Xi meters to the right of an arbitrary reference point, and reaching a height of Hi meters. No two poles will be at the same position. After each pole is placed, the shape of the tent will be updated to fit the current set of poles. In particular, the upper outline of the tent will be a function with the following properties its defined over all positions from negative infinity to positive infinity its height is always nonnegative its made up entirely of a series of connected line segments, with each one having a slope with absolute value no greater than meaning that the function is continuous, and its height may never change from left to right at an angle of more than degrees updown it doesnt intersect with any of the poles meaning that, at each poles position, the functions height must be no smaller than that of the pole The crosssectional area of the tent is the area under this function. Despite their popularity, the circus troupe doesnt exactly have money to spare on tent materials with most of their budget allocated to feeding their flying elephant star. As such, theyd like to minimize the crosssectional area of their tent after placing each of the N poles. Theyd like you to calculate the sum of these N minimal areas for them. In this example, three poles are placed one after another. The first is at X with height . The minimum area of the tent is m. The second pole is placed at X with a height of . The minimum area of the tent is now . m. The third pole is at X with a height of . This doesnt change the minimum area of the tent, which is still . m. Youre given X, and X.N may then be calculated as follows, using given constants Ax, Bx, and Cx note that it is guaranteed that X.N will be distinct Xi Ax Xi Bx Cx Similarly, youre given H, and H.N may then be calculated as follows, using given constants Ah, Bh, and Ch Hi Ah Hi Bh Ch Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different tents that the circus troupe will set up. For each tent, there is first a line containing the single integer N. Then there is a line containing the four spaceseparated integers X, Ax, Bx, and Cx. Then there is a line containing the four spaceseparated integers H, Ah, Bh, and Ch. Output For the ith tent, print a line containing Case i followed by one real number. This number is the sum of N values, the jth of which is the minimum possible crosssectional area of the tent after poles through j have been placed. Answers that have a relative error of up to will be accepted as correct. Constraints le T le le N le , le X le , le Ax, Bx le , le Cx le , le H le , le Ah, Bh le , le Ch le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, the crosssectional areas of the tent after each pole is erected are ., ., ., ., and . for a total of .# Fighting all the Zombies At last, your power knows no bounds Within the world of the everpopular roleplaying game Dungeons Dragons, or DD, youve managed to become one of the most powerful wizards to have ever wizarded. And yet, youre still not content mdash you feel compelled to continue grinding away, repeatedly destroying monsters to ever so slowly increase your power further. Theres a particular cave which contains N zombies, and these zombies respawn every time you reenter the cave. As such, you can efficiently gain experience by entering, destroying all of them, and leaving, repeating this process infinitely or until your supply of Hot Pockets runs out. The nth zombie has a power level of n. Conveniently, youre also carrying N wands with you, the nth of which has a power level of n. Each time you enter the cave, youll use each of your wands exactly once to cast a spell and destroy a single zombie, such that all N zombies are defeated. Initially, you know N different spells, the nth of which allows your wand with power level n to target the zombie with power level n. Youre going to visit the cave M times today. Before each visit, youre going to learn some new spells which youll continue to be able to use for all of your remaining visits. In particular, before your ith visit, youll acquire Si different new spells, each of which allows your wand with power level Wi to target the zombie with power level of Zi. Wands are unable to affect zombies which are much more powerful than them, and it would be a waste to use a wand on a zombie much weaker than it. As such, Wi Zi le holds for all spells. Note that all spells are considered distinct, even if several of them allow a particular wand to target a particular zombie. On each of your M visits to the cave, youre interested in the number of different ways in which you can defeat all N zombies, using only the spells that youve learned up to that point. Two ways are considered different if at least one spell is used in one of them but not the other. These quantities can get rather large, and you dont want to deal with M big numbers, so you only care about computing their sum modulo ,. Youre given W, and W.M may then be calculated as follows, using given constants Aw and Bw Wi Aw Wi Bw N A temporary sequence of values D.M will be used to help calculate Z.M. Youre given D, and D.M may then be calculated as follows, using given constants Ad and Bd Di Ad Di Bd From these values, Z.M may then be calculated as follows Zi max , min N, Wi Di Finally, youre given S, and S.M may then be calculated as follows, using given constants As and Bs Si As Si Bs , Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different caves youll visit. For each cave, there are four lines. The first line contains the two spaceseparated integers N and M. The second line contains the three spaceseparated integers W, Aw, and Bw. The third line contains the three spaceseparated integers D, Ad, and Bd. The fourth line contains the three spaceseparated integers S, As, and Bs. Output For the ith cave, print a line containing Case i followed by one integer. This number is the sum taken modulo , of M values, the jth of which is the number of different ways in which you can defeat the zombies on your jth visit to the cave. Constraints le T le le N, M le , le W le N le Aw, Bw le N le D, Ad, Bd le le S, As, Bs le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, your first learn a new spell that can defeat the first zombie with your first wand. This gives you ways to defeat the first zombie with your first wand, and way to defeat the second zombie with your second wand, for a total of ways to defeat both. You then learn three new ways to defeat the second zombie with your second wand. ways to defeat the first zombie and ways to defeat the second zombie is ways to defeat both. You then learn five new ways to defeat the second zombie with your first wand. You cant actually use your first wand to defeat the second zombie though, as that will leave you with no ways to defeat the first zombie. So you still have ways to defeat both. Finally, you learn seven new ways to defeat the first zombie with the second wand. If you use the first wand on the first zombie, and the second wand on the second zombie, you still have combinations of possible spells. If you use the first wand on the second zombie and second wand on the first zombie, you have combinations of possible spells. In total, thats ways to defeat the zombies. Therefore the total answer is .# Rain Over New York Pierre Peintre is slaving away over a new abstract painting entitled Rain Over New York. This will be a simple yet powerful piece, omitting incidental details such as busy city dwellers shielding themselves with umbrellas, and instead focusing on the fundamental atmosphere of a rainy metropolitan day. It will be painted on a canvas which is subdivided into a grid of cm x cm cells, with N rows and M columns. Each cell in this grid will be filled in with a solid color, either black, white, grey, or blue. The lower portion of Rain Over New York will depict the skyline of New York City. In each column i, the bottommost Hi cells will be painted grey to represent an austere skyscraper. Somewhere above the buildings, Pierre will place a single, innocent raincloud. In particular, the cloud can be any rectangle of white cells on the canvas, as long as none of them are supposed to be grey. Below the cloud, there must be a gentle rainfall, of course. Every cell which has a white cell somewhere directly above it and a grey cell somewhere directly below it, and which isnt supposed to be white or grey itself, should be painted blue. Note that there may be no such cells, if the cloud is immediately above the skyline. All of the remaining cells in the painting will be painted black, providing a serene nighttime backdrop for the scene. Pierre knows that every painting he can produce like this will sell for an enormous sum of money, but only if its unique. As such, hell paint as many different paintings as he can by varying the position and dimensions of the raincloud depicted in them. Two paintings are considered distinct if at least one cell on the canvas is a different color in one painting than it is in the other. As an example, below is an illustration of of the possible paintings for the fourth sample case Thanks to the incredible sum of money which Pierre is sure to make from these works, hell be able to purchase all of the paint that hell need. He always buys his paint in cans of a fixed size, each of which contains just enough to cover a surface of , cm, and for each color, hell buy just enough such cans in order to be able to complete all possible distinct variations of his painting, once each. Always one to plan ahead, Pierre would like to figure out exactly how much paint of each color hell have left over when hes done. The sequence H.M can be constructed by concatenating K temporary sequences of values S.K, the ith of which has a length of Li. Its guaranteed that the sum of these sequences lengths is equal to M. For each sequence Si, youre given Si, and Si,.Li may then be calculated as follows, using given constants Ai and Bi Si,j Ai Si,j Bi N Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different base skylines Pierre wants to use. For each skyline, there is first a line containing the three spaceseparated integers, N, M, and K. Then K lines follow, the ith of which contains the four spaceseparated integers Li, Si, Ai, and Bi. Output For the ith skyline, print a line containing Case i followed by four spaceseparated integers, the total amount of black, white, grey, and blue paint which Pierre will have left over, respectively in cm, after completing all possible variations of his painting. Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , le K le le Li le M le Hi, Si,j le N le Ai, Bi lt N Explanation of Sample In the first case, theres only one possible painting, with the top cell painted white, and the remaining two cells painted grey. Pierre will buy can each of white and grey paint, and have , and , cm left over of those colors, respectively. In the second case, there are possible paintings three with the cloud covering one cell, two with the cloud covering two cells, and one with the cloud covering three cells. Therefore, Pierre will use cm of white paint in total. The fourth case corresponds to the picture shown above.# Subtle Sabotage Wilson has had quite enough of his job driving trucks for a moving company, and is now interested in carrying out different sorts of deliveries namely, pizza pie deliveries Unfortunately, his local pizzeria already has a fulltime driver, Mario Crosta, but Wilson has devised a devious plan to sabotage Mario, hopefully resulting in him getting fired and Wilson taking over. The pizzeria is located in a town which can be modeled as a grid of cells with N rows and M columns, with each cell representing an intersection. There are at least two intersections in other words, N M ge . Its possible to drive from a given intersection to any adjacent intersection directly up, down, left, or right in minute. Its not possible to leave the grid. The pizzeria is located at the topleft intersection, and Wilson is planning on placing an order for pizza to be delivered to the bottomright intersection. Due to the paramount importance of pizza arriving while its still hot, this pizzeria guarantees that their deliveries will always arrive within at most N M minutes or the customer will get their money back and also the driver will be immediately fired. Ordinarily, this is just enough time to reach even the bottomright corner of the town, but Wilson intends to make this not an ordinary delivery. Before placing his order, Wilson will pull some strings and arrange to have some of the intersections blocked off. In particular, he can shut down an entire axisaligned KxK square of intersections all at once. He can even choose multiple such squares, as long as all of them lie entirely within the grid, none of them overlap with one another, and none of them include the topleft or bottomright intersections. When hes done, Mario will be unable to pass through any intersection which is part of any of the squares. Wilson doesnt want to block off so many intersections that Mario will be unable to complete his delivery at all, as that would likely be too obvious. Instead, he wants to make sure that the delivery is still possible but is forced to take longer than N M minutes, resulting in Mario losing his job. Despite his vast network of connections with corrupt government officials, shutting down each square of intersections will still cost Wilson a fair sum of money, so hed like to successfully complete his sabotage by blocking off as few squares as possible. Unfortunately, it also might be the case that no possible set of squares can result in Marios delivery taking too long without making the delivery impossible. On the x grid below, for example, if Wilson blocks off six x squares of intersections as shown in black, the shortest possible delivery route from the pizzeria to the bottomright intersection in red will take minutes, which is longer than minutes. However, note that this solution is not optimal. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different pizzerias Wilson wants to work for. For each pizzeria, there is a single line containing the three spaceseparated integers, N, M, and K. Output For the ith truck, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum number of blockedoff squares required for Wilson to successfully sabotage Mario or if it cant be done. Constraints le T le , le N, M, K le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, if both the topright and bottomleft intersections are blocked off, then the bottomright corner will be unreachable from the pizzeria, which is no good. If only one of those cells is blocked off, then Mario can proceed through the other one, managing to still complete his delivery in minutes. Therefore Wilson has no way to sabotage him successfully.# Broken Bits Youre looking at a sort of clock which has a row of N lights. Each light is either on or off, and their states can be read as an Ndigit binary number. The first light represents the most significant leftmost digit while the Nth light represents the least significant digit. A light thats on corresponds to a , and a light thats off corresponds to a . Youve just started looking at the clock, and you know that every second from now on, it will count upwards by , with its lights turning on or off to display the next number in binary. Once the clock displays N with all N lights on, it will wrap around to display with all lights off on the following second, and then continue counting up again. However, or more of the clocks lights may be permanently broken. You dont know which ones those are, but you know that theyll always appear to be off, even when they should be on. Currently, the ith light appears to be on if Li , and otherwise appears to be off if Li . You have also received insider information that exactly K of the lights are currently supposed to be on. Its guaranteed that K is at least as large as the number of lights which appear to be on. Assuming you stand around and look at this clock for a while, whats the maximum amount of time you might have to wait before you can be completely sure of what state every single light is currently supposed to be in Its possible that you can be sure immediately, after seconds. On the other hand, its also possible that you might never be sure, no matter how long you wait. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different clocks you own. For each clock, there is first a line containing the two spaceseparated integers, N and K. Then there is a line containing N spaceseparated integers, the ith of which is Li. Output For the ith clock, print a line containing Case i followed by the maximum number of seconds which might go by before you know the true current state of each light, or if you might never know. Constraints le T le , le N le le K le N le Li le Explanation of Sample In the first case, exactly one of the two rightmost lights is initially supposed to be on, so the clock is either supposed to be showing or . After one second, the clock will be supposed to show either or . Supposing that the two rightmost lights are both broken, both of these values will still look like to you, so you wont be able to tell which one is correct. After one more second, the clock will be supposed to show either or . At that point, by observing the functioning leftmost light, you can determine whether all three lights are supposed to be on or off at that moment. In the second case, youll never be able to tell which of the two leftmost lights are supposed to be on if theyre both broken.# Pie Packages Wilson, everyones favorite recurring programming contest character, has finally decided that its time to retire. Why After several more job changes and miraculous promotions, not only has he become incredibly wealthy, but hes ended up stuck in a boring administrative role, which was the last thing he wanted Wilson is currently employed as the head of accounting at a pie delivery company, and has been given one last assignment to complete before his retirement mdash computing delivery truck gas usage. He wishes he could just drive one of the trucks instead. The pie delivery company services a network of N towns, which rather looks like a pie itself or perhaps like an umbrella. N of the towns form a circle around the outside of the region, and are numbered from to N in clockwise order. They are connected to one another by N roads, each of which can be driven along in either direction. The ith of these roads requires Oi litres of gas to drive along, and runs between towns i and i unless i N, in which case it instead runs between towns N and . The remaining town, numbered N , lies in the center of the region. There are N roads connecting it to the other towns, each of which can be driven along in either direction. The ith of these roads requires Ri litres of gas to drive along, and runs between towns N and i. A total of N N pie deliveries are scheduled to be carried out, one for each distinct pair of towns. In particular, for every town i, i deliveries will originate from it, with the jth of them having town j as its destination. The truck drivers will have to pay the gas expenses out of their own pockets, of course, so for each delivery, the truck driver will choose a sequence of roads to follow from the initial town to the destination such that the total amount of gas required for their trip is minimized. Wilsons task is to tally up the total amount of gas which will be used across all N N of the deliveries. Hes been instructed to only determine the value of this sum modulo ,. Youre given O, and O.N may then be calculated as follows using given constants Ao, Bo, Co, and Do. Oi Ao Oi Bo Co Do Youre given R, and R.N may then be calculated as follows using given constants Ar, Br, Cr, and Dr. Ri Ar Ri Br Cr Dr Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different regions of towns. For each region, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then there is a line with five spaceseparated integers, O, Ao, Bo, Co, and Do. Then there is a line with five spaceseparated integers, R, Ar, Br, Cr, and Dr. Output For the ith graph, print a line containing Case i followed by the total amount of gas which will be used in litres, modulo , Constraints le T le le N le , le O, Co, Do le , le Ao, Bo le , le R, Cr, Dr le , le Ar, Br le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, the roads running around the outside require , and litres of gas to drive along, respectively. Meanwhile, the roads connected to the central town require , and litres of gas to drive along, respectively. The amounts of gas required for the deliveries in litres are , , , for a total of .# Salient Strings Many people are avid fans of the daily crossword in the paper, but not you. I mean, the format is pretty terrible, right You only get to use English words, and any hack can look those up in a dictionary. Also, it takes forever to make just one puzzle. What a waste of time. Youve written a letter to the editor describing a new word game. Its really easy to make new puzzles because the only thing you give the solver is a permutation P.N of the first N positive integers. Its then up to the solver to find any string thats salient for the given permutation. A string is salient for the permutation P.N if it consists of N uppercase letters A.Z, such that when its N nonempty suffixes are sorted in lexicographical order, the suffix starting at the ith character is the Pith suffix in the sorted list. Its possible that a given permutation has no salient strings. You need some example puzzles to include in your letter. You already have some permutations generated, so all you need is to supply an answer for each permutation if possible. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different permutations youve generated. For each permutation, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then N lines follow, the ith of which contains the integer Pi. It is guaranteed that each integer from to N shows up exactly once in P. Output For the ith permutation, print a line containing Case i followed by any salient string for that permutation note that any valid string consisting of N uppercase letters will be accepted, or if there are no such strings. Constraints le T le , le N le , le Pi le N Explanation of Sample In the first case, if we sort the suffixes of FACEBOOK we get ACEBOOK BOOK CEBOOK EBOOK FACEBOOK K OK OOK If we read the indices of the suffixes back in order of decreasing length, we get , which is the given permutation. Therefore FACEBOOK is salient for this permutation, and is one possible accepted answer.# Sluggish Security N pairs of friends are standing in two lines of N people each, waiting to go through an airport security checkpoint. The ith passenger in the first line counting from the front belongs to pair Ai, while the ith passenger in the second line belongs to pair Bi. In the N integers Ai.N, and Bi.N, each value from and N appears exactly twice. A pair of friends might be standing in the same line or in different lines. Every minute, the first person in one of the two lines will be admitted through security. If one of the lines is already empty, then the person at the front of the other line will necessarily be admitted. This process will go on for N minutes, until both lines have been exhausted. Some people are much slower than others at the tedious process of removing their shoes and belts, placing their laptops in separate bins, and so on. As such, its unclear which line will be chosen to advance in each minute. When a passenger passes through security, they will wait just past the checkpoint for their friend the other person in their pair to also make it through. If their friend has already made it through first, then the two of them will immediately proceed to their gate. As such, if a pair of friends pass through security after a and b minutes respectively, they will be able to head to their gate after maxa, b minutes. However, everyone hates standing around after security for too long If anyone is forced to wait for their friend for more than minutes that is, maxa, b gt mina, b , then theyll throw a fit and the entire airport will be closed down. Assuming that everyone is satisfied and manages to get through security without closing down the airport, sorting the pairs of friends by the times at which they proceed to their gates yields a permutation of N pair numbers. How many such pair orders are possible modulo , In order to reduce the size of your input file, youre given A, and A.N can be calculated as follows Ai Ai DA,i In order to compute the sequence DA,.N, youre given KA other sequences, the ith of which consists of LA,i elements SA,i,.LA,i, and has an associated repetition number RA,i. The sequence DA,.N can then be constructed by concatenating together KA sequences, the ith of which consists of the sequence SA,i,.LA,i repeated RA,i times. Its guaranteed that the concatenation of these repeated sequences has exactly N elements in other words, the sum of the products LA,i RA,i for i .KA is equal to N . In the same way, youre given B, and B.N can be calculated using the sequence DB,.N, which in turn can be calculated by concatenating together KB sequences, the ith of which consists of RB,i copies of the sequence SB,i,.LB,i. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different airports. For each airport, there is first a line containing the integer N. There is then a line with two spaceseparated integers A and KA. Then there are KA lines, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers RA,i and LA,i, followed by LA,i more spaceseparated integers, the jth of which is SA,i,j. Similarly, there is then a line with two spaceseparated integers B and KB. Then there are KB lines, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers RB,i and LB,i, followed by LB,i more spaceseparated integers, the jth of which is SB,i,j. Output For the ith airport, print a line containing Case i followed by the number of possible pair orders, modulo ,. If its not possible for everybody to get through security without somebody throwing a tantrum, output . Constraints le T le le N le , le Ai, Bi, KA, KB, RA,i, RB,i, LA,i, LB,i le N N le DA,i, DB,i, SA,i,j, SB,i,j le N Explanation of Sample In the first case, A , and B , . The two possible pair orders are , and , . One way to achieve the former is to admit passengers from lines , , , and who belong to pairs , , , and . In the second case, A B , , . There is only one possible pair order , , . In the third case, A , , , , , , , and B , , , , , , , . In the fourth case, A , , and B , , . Theres no way for all of these people to get through security without causing a ruckus. In the fifth case, A , , ., , and B , , ., , .# Steadfast Snakes Once upon a time, you were the proud owner of a great many ladders and snakes. Unfortunately, you were forced to give up all but one of each, and in time, even your single remaining snake slithered away. But all of that is about to change. Youve just received word that a new executive order has been passed which will allow you to once again keep as many snakes as youd like To prepare, youve eagerly gone ahead and constructed a series of N ladders which will serve as a home for the impending flock of snakes. Unfortunately, it was only then that you realized your huge mistake mdash feeding snakes is extraordinarily expensive The N ladders are arranged in a line on the ground, with each one standing up vertically. Each pair of consecutive ladders are metre apart from each other, and the ith ladder from the left initially has a height of Hi metres. As an expert in reptilian behavioral patterns, youre sure that a certain number of snakes will soon arrive on your property. In particular, every possible unordered pair of ladders will surely be claimed by a single snake, meaning that exactly N N snakes will be showing up. If a snake claims the pair of ladders i and j, it will want to stretch itself out perfectly between the tops of those two ladders, such that its body runs down one ladder, along the ground, and up along the other ladder. Therefore, such a snake will surely have a length of exactly Hi j i Hj metres. Youre desperate to reduce the heights of some of your ladders as quickly as possible so as to attract some shorter snakes and save your wallet. You estimate that youve got K minutes to make your alterations before the snakes start showing up. Each minute, you may choose a single ladder and cut off its top few rungs, reducing its height by exactly metre. You may not shorten a ladder if its already only metre tall. You may choose not to cut any ladders in a given minute. As everyone knows, the daily cost of feeding a snake is proportional to its length. That being said, youre not concerned with the total amount youll have to dish out every day, but rather on the largest amount youll have to spend on any one snake. As such, youre like to determine the minimum possible length that the longest of the N N snakes can end up having, given that you perform your ladder cutting optimally. Youre given H, and H.N may then be calculated as follows using given constants A, B, and C. Hi A Hi B C Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different sets of ladders. For each set of ladders, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and K. Then there is a line with four spaceseparated integers, H, A, B and C. Output For the ith snake, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum possible length that the longest snake can have in metres. Constraints le T le le N le , le K le le H, C le , le A, B le , Explanation of Sample In the first case the ladders have heights of , and metres respectively. Cutting the last ladder times will yields height of , and . The longest snake is then the one which claims the first two ladders, with a length of metres. You could instead cut the second ladder once and the third ladder twice for final heights of , and . In this case, the longest snake is the one which claims the first and last ladders, with a length of metres. In the second case, you have more than enough time to trim all of the ladders down to a height of metre each. The longest snake is then the one which claims the first and last ladders, with a length of metres. In the third case, the ladder heights are , , , , .# Fox Holes Kit is a young, obedient Fox who excels in his studies, diligently practices his hunting skills, and is always friendly. His parents couldnt be prouder That is, except for one problem. he refuses to eat his vegetables In an effort to improve Kits diet, his parents have set up a little game for him to play. Theyve dug a series of N small holes in a row on the ground, and numbered them from to N , from first to last. Theyve left the first and last holes empty, and filled the remaining N holes with one healthy vegetable each There are N different types of vegetables, numbered from to N, and a vegetable of type Vi has initially been placed into each hole i, such that exactly vegetables of each type were used in total. Kit must start inside hole , and jump forwards from hole to hole until he reaches hole N . When hes inside any given hole i, hes agile enough to jump to either hole i or directly to hole i , but he cant jump any further than that at once. Whenever he lands in a hole containing a vegetable, the rules of the game mandate that he must eat it Kit has agreed to play this game not that he has much choice in the matter, but theres only so much he can take. The vegetables are tolerable as long as theres variety. He doesnt care how many he has to eat in total, but he absolutely refuses to eat multiple vegetables of any single type over the course of the game. In other words, for each vegetable type, he must only enter at most one of the two holes containing that vegetable on his way from hole to hole N . Kit will play the game once per day for a period of M days. For some fun variety, at the start of each day i, his parents will swap the contents of two different holes Ai and Bi. Then, Kit will play the game using the current configuration of vegetables. Once hes done, his parents will replace any vegetables which he had eaten with new vegetables of the same types, thus resetting the game to the state it was in before Kit played it. Each day, there might be no acceptable way for Kit to complete the game, or there might be many different ways for him to do so. Two ways are considered different if at least one hole is visited in one but not the other. In order to make the game more exciting for himself, Kit would like to count up the number of different ways he could potentially complete it each day. However, thats a lot of big numbers to keep track of, so hes only interested in the sum of these M values when taken modulo ,. Please help him compute this overall sum Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different rows of holes. For each row of holes, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. There is next a line containing N spaceseparated integers, the ith of which is Vi. Then M lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi Output For the ith row of holes, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of the M days answers modulo ,. Constraints le T le le N, M le , le Ai, Bi le N le Vi le N Both the sum of N values and the sum of M values across all T cases do not exceed ,. Explanation of Sample In the first case, both holes and will contain vegetables of type even after their contents are swapped. There are then different ways for Kit to validly reach hole from hole , visiting either of these sequences of holes He cant quite jump far enough to reach hole directly from hole , nor can he visit both holes and , as that would require eating multiple vegetables of a single type. In the second case, there are different ways for Kit to validly complete the game on the first day, and only way on the second day. This results in a final answer of modulo , .# Fox Moles Its dinner time A group of N Foxen are standing silently in a field, which can be represented as an infinite number line, patiently waiting for their meals to make an appearance. The ith Fox is standing at position Pi, with no two Foxen standing at the same position. Theres also one hole in the ground at each each integral position on the number line. Each of these holes is the entrance to a moles den, and the Foxen know that some of these delicious critters are bound to show up sooner or later A littleknown fact about Foxen is that, in addition to having an acute array of regular senses, they possess a SONARlike ability to emit imperceptible sound waves and use them to discern objects at great distances. The ith Fox has tuned their wavelength to a distance of Ri, allowing them to only detect moles which emerge from holes at a distance of exactly Ri away from them that is, at either position Pi Ri or Pi Ri. All of a sudden, some number of moles have just popped up from various holes all at once No mole popped up at any Foxs position, no two moles popped up from the same hole, and every mole was detected by at least one Fox. Furthermore, each Fox i has determined that theres exactly mole at a distance of Ri away from it as opposed to there being either or such moles. Following this initial event, theres been quite some commotion. Some moles may have retreated back underground, and some new moles may have emerged, all in any order. At every point in time, the set of moles on the surface is subject to all of the same restrictions as before, with one difference Each Fox i continues to be sure that at least mole is still present at a distance of Ri away from it, but can no longer determine whether or not there are perhaps now such moles instead. After some time of this, the Foxen have decided that theyre ready to pounce and invite some of the moles currently on the surface over for dinner. Unfortunately, theyve started to become rather overwhelmed with trying to keep track of which moles may be on the surface, or even roughly how many of them there might be. Assuming that the Foxens initial observations were correct, and that some unknown amount of time has since gone by with moles surfacing or departing, please help the Foxen determine the number of different quantities of moles which could possibly have ended up on the surface. If its impossible for their set of initial observations to have been accurate in the first place, output instead. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different fields. For each field, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Pi and Ri. Output For the ith field, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the number of different quantities of moles which could possibly end up on the surface at any point, or if the Foxens initial observations must have been inaccurate. Constraints le T le le N le , le Pi le , le Ri le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, its possible for there to eventually be mole at either position or , or moles at both positions and . There cant be moles due to the restriction that the Fox must detect at least of them, and there cant be more than moles as theyd have to be at positions which the Fox is unable to detect. In the third case, its impossible for a set of moles to have initially popped up such that each Fox would have detected exactly one of them.# Fox Patrols A certain wellhidden valley is home to a thriving population of mysterious creatures mdash Foxen However, keeping the valley safe from outsiders such as humans is a necessity. To that end, a group of Foxen have been sent out to patrol the border. On their patrol route, the Foxen know that theyre going to pass by an interesting, rectangular forest. When viewed from above, the forest can be modeled as a grid of cells with R rows and C columns. The rows are numbered from to R from North to South, while the column are numbered from to C from West to East. One tree is growing in the center of each cell, and each trees height in metres is some positive integer no larger than H. If the Foxen were to look at the forest from the North side, all of the trees in any given column of cells would obscure each other and blend together. In fact, the Foxen would really only be able make out the overall shape of the forests skyline when viewed from that direction. This Northern skyline can be expressed as a sequence of C positive integers, with the ith one being the largest of the R tree heights in the ith column. Similarly, if they were to look at the forest from the West side, they would only be able to make out the shape of its skyline from that direction. This Western skyline is a sequence of R positive integers, with the ith one being the largest of the C tree heights in the ith row. On their way to the forest, the Foxen find themselves wondering about what it might look like. Theyve done their research and are aware of its dimensions R and C, as well as the maximum possible height of its trees H, but they dont know the actual heights of any of its trees. Theyd like to determine how many different, distinctlooking forests they might end up finding. A forest is a set of heights for all RxC trees, and two forests are considered to be distinctlooking from one another if their Northern skyline sequences differ andor their Western skyline sequences differ. Please help the Foxen determine the number of possible different, distinctlooking forests As this quantity may be quite large, theyre only interested in its value when taken modulo ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different forests visited by the Foxen. For each forest, there is a single line containing the three spaceseparated integers R, C, and H. Output For the ith forest, print a line containing Case i followed by the number of possible different, distinctlooking forests modulo ,. Constraints le T le le R, C, H le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, there are possible different, distinctlooking forests which consist of a x grid of trees, with each tree being either m or m tall. For example, the following forests look different even though their Western skylines are equal, their Northern skylines differ, so both should be counted On the other hand, the following forests look identical to one another from both the North and the West, so only one of them should be counted # Fox Poles While taking a walk through the woods, a group of Foxen have come upon a curious sight mdash a row of N wooden poles sticking straight up out of the ground Who placed them there, and why The Foxen have no clue. Looking at the poles from the side, they can be modeled as vertical line segments rising upwards from a number line which represents the ground, with the ith pole at distinct integral position Pi and having a realvalued height of Hi. One of the Foxen, Ozy, is fascinated by the shadows being cast on the ground by the poles. The sun is shining down on the poles from some point very high up in the sky, resulting in infinitely many rays of light descending towards the number line at all possible positions along it, but all travelling in some uniform direction. Each ray of light stops travelling as soon as it comes into contact with either a pole or the ground. Any point on the ground which is incapable of being reached by rays of light because they would get blocked by at least one pole before reaching that point is considered to be covered in shadows. The sunlights direction can be described by a real value a, with absolute value no larger than , where a is the signed angle difference in degrees between the rays direction and a vector pointing directly downwards. As an example, lets imagine that theres a single pole at position and with a height of . If a , then sunlight is shining diagonally down and to the right, meaning that the pole obstructs rays of light from being able to reach any points on the ground in the interval , effectively casting a shadow with length to the right. If a , then sunlight is shining diagonally down and to the left, causing the pole to cast a shadow with to the left instead over the interval , . If a , then sunlight is shining directly downwards onto the ground, resulting in the pole not casting any shadow. Ozy is planning on returning by himself tomorrow in order to observe the poles again, but he doesnt know at what time of day hell be able to make the trip. He does at least have it narrowed down to being within some interval of time, during which he knows that the sunlights direction a will range from A and B, inclusive. Given that the sunlights direction a will be a real number drawn uniformly at random from the interval A, B when Ozy visits the poles tomorrow, please help him predict the expected total length of ground which will be covered in shadows at that time. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different sets of poles. For each set of poles, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, A, and B. Then N lines follow, the ith of which contains the integer Pi and the real number Hi separated by a space. The poles heights are given with at most digits after the decimal point. Output For the ith set of poles, print a line containing Case i followed by a single real number, the expected length of ground which will be covered in shadows. Your output should have at most absolute or relative error. Constraints le T le le N le , le A lt B le le Pi le , le Hi le , The sum of N values across all T cases does not exceed ,. Explanation of Sample In the first case, the sunlights direction a is drawn uniformly at random from the interval , . As described above, the length of ground covered in shadows when a is exactly . When a , the shadows length is ., and when a , its length is . However, note that its expected length for this distribution of possible a values is not equal to the average of those sample lengths.# Fox Strolls A certain forest has N trees growing in it, and there just so happens to be a Fox living at the top of each one The trees are numbered from to N, and their bases are all arranged in a straight line on the ground, with metre between the bases of each pair of adjacent trees i and i . Each tree i is Hi metres tall. The Foxen are all good friends with one another, and frequently like to go out for strolls to visit each others homes. Rather than jumping directly between the trees, they prefer to always keep their paws firmly planted on some surface, such as tree trunks or the ground. As such, the shortest possible trip from the top of tree i to the top of another tree j requires climbing down tree i to the ground, walking along the ground to the base of tree j, and then climbing up to its top, resulting in a total distance of Hi j i Hj metres traveled. However, the Foxen arent terribly satisfied with how long their trips currently take. Given the frequency of their strolls, theyve decided to invest in reducing their travel distance by constructing some bridges between the tree trunks. Theyre only interested in building metrelong, horizontal bridges. Each bridge may be constructed to connect any pair of adjacent trees i and i , and it may be placed at any height above the ground, as long as it touches both of those tree trunks in other words, its height must be no larger than the minimum of Hi and Hi. Multiple bridges may be constructed at different heights between any given pair of adjacent trees. Once bridges are installed, the Foxen will be willing to walk across them, potentially saving them the time of descending all the way to the ground during their strolls. There are N N different pairs of Foxen i and j who might want to meet up, requiring a trip to be taken from the top of tree i to the top of tree j or vice versa. The Foxens top priority is minimizing the sum of the N N pairwise shortest distances of strolls which would be required for these visits to take place. Please help them determine the minimum possible value of this sum, assuming that they construct as many bridges as it takes. That being said, they dont want to spend all day constructing bridges either. as such, theyre also interested in the minimum number of bridges which they can construct to achieve that minimum possible sum of pairwise distances. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of forests. For each forest, there are two lines. The first line contains the integer N. The second line contains N spaceseparated integers, the ith of which is the integer Hi. Output For the ith forest, print a line containing Case i followed by two integers the minimum possible sum of pairwise shortest distances after any number of bridges are built in metres, and the minimum number of bridges required to achieve that minimum sum. Constraints le T le le N le , le Hi le , The sum of N values across all T cases does not exceed ,. Explanation of Sample In the first case, the Foxens optimal strategy is to construct one bridge between the first trees at a height of m, and another bridge between the last trees at a height of m. With this configuration, the shortest path between the first trees tops is m long, as is the shortest path for the last trees. The shortest path between the first trees top and the last trees top is m long. The resulting sum of pairwise shortest distances is then m, which is the minimum possible sum.# Fox Tolls A group of N Foxen reside in a peaceful forest community. Each Foxs property consists of a tree stump as well as an underground den. There are N twoway paths on the ground running amongst the tree stumps, with the ith path connecting the stumps belonging to two different Foxen Ai and Bi, such that all N stumps can be reached from one another by following a sequence of paths. Similarly, there are N underground tunnels running amongst the dens, with the ith tunnel connecting the dens belonging to Foxen Ci and Di, such that all N dens can be reached from one another. Theres additionally a passageway connecting the tree stump and den belonging to the st Fox, which is the only way in the whole forest to get underground from the surface and vice versa. At night the Foxen sleep in their dens, but during the daytime, they like to emerge and relax lazily on their tree stumps. Each day, every Fox takes a trip from their den to their tree stump, taking the unique shortest path through the system of tunnels and paths to get there. However, this often requires passing through other Foxens properties, which they dont appreciate a whole lot. To compensate, the Foxen have started charging each other tolls for said passage. They dont have much of a currency, but Foxen do love crackers, so those will do. Over a given period of M days, on the ith day, two different Foxen Wi and Xi will each charge tolls for one of their pieces of property. If Yi T, then Fox Wi will be charging tolls for passage through their tree stump. Otherwise, if Yi D, then Fox Wi will instead be charging tolls for passage through their den. Similarly, Fox Xi will be charging tolls for passage through either their tree stump if Zi T or their den if Zi D. Each day, whenever a Fox passes through another Foxs den or stump which is subject to tolls on that day, theyll normally need to pay up with crackers. However, if theyve already paid a toll earlier on that same trip, then the propertyowning Fox will take pity and only charge them cracker instead of . As such, a Foxs daily trip may end up costing them at most crackers. A Fox will never charge themselves a toll, of course. If a pair of Foxen both owe each other crackers, theyll still both pay up as normal, rather than attempting to minimize the number of cracker transactions performed. The Foxen are having some trouble keeping track of how many crackers they owe one another. On each of the M days, theyd like to count up the total number of crackers which will be charged as part of the tolls for the N trips taken on that day. To avoid dealing with too many large numbers, theyd like to combine these M cracker counts into a single value as follows where Vi is the ith days count nbspnbspnbspnbsp . V , V , V . , VM modulo , Please help the Foxen compute this combined value Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of different communities of Foxen. For each community of Foxen, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Then N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ci and Di. Then M lines follow, the ith of which contains the integers Wi and Xi and the characters Yi and Zi, all separated by spaces. Output For the ith community of Foxen, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the requested combined value based on the M days cracker counts, modulo ,. Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , le Ai, Bi, Ci, Di, Wi, Xi le N Both the sum of N values and the sum of M values across all T cases do not exceed ,. Explanation of Sample In the first case, Fox doesnt need to pay any tolls to get from its den to its tree stump, while Fox must pay crackers to complete its trip due to passing through Foxs tree stump. In the second case, crackers will be charged on the first day the Foxen must pay , and crackers, respectively, crackers will be charged on the second day, and none will be charged on the third day. This results in a final answer of , modulo ,. In the third case, , and crackers will be charged on each of the three days, respectively.# Ethan Searches for a String Ethans doing his very first programming assignment implementing a contains function. This function takes two strings, A and B, and returns true if A is a substring of B, and false otherwise. Heres the algorithm that Ethan has come up with. Note that A denotes the length of A, and the individual characters of the strings are indexed. Set i and j to each be equal to . If i gt A, return true. If j gt B, return false. If Ai Bj, increment i and j by each, and return to Step . If i , increment j by , and return to Step . Set i to be equal to , and return to Step . As the TA in charge of grading Ethans assignment, this doesnt look quite right to you. To make sure Ethan doesnt get any more credit than he deserves, youd like to find some inputs for which his algorithm returns false even though it should return true. The professor teaching this class has provided you with a halfwritten list of test cases. In particular, its a list of inputs for the A parameter, and youre free to come up with your own inputs for the B parameter. For each given string A, you want to find a string B that will cause Ethans algorithm to return the wrong output false instead of true, if possible. A will only contain uppercase alphabetic characters, and B must follow the same constraint. The test cases shouldnt be too large, so B must also contain at most , characters. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of given strings. Then, T lines follow. Each line contains a single string, A. Output For the ith given string, print a line containing Case i followed by any valid string B that will cause Ethans algorithm to return the wrong value, or Impossible if no such string exists. Constraints le T le le A le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, i and j will have these values in order the first times the algorithm is at Step i j Please note that other outputs for example cases and would also be accepted. # Interception Consider an Ndegree polynomial, expressed as follows PN xN PN xN . P x P x Youd like to find all of the polynomials xintercepts mdash in other words, all distinct real values of x for which the expression evaluates to . Unfortunately, the order of operations has been reversed Addition now has the highest precedence, followed by multiplication , followed by exponentiation . In other words, an expression like ab c d should be evaluated as abcd. For our purposes, exponentiation is rightassociative in other words, abc abc, and . The unary negation operator still has the highest precedence, so the expression evaluates to . Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of polynomials. For each polynomial, there is first a line containing the integer N, the degree of the polynomial. Then, N lines follow. The ith of these lines contains the integer Pi. Output For the ith polynomial, print a line containing Case i K, where K is the number of distinct real values of x for which the polynomial evaluates to . Then print K lines, each containing such a value of x, in increasing order. Absolute and relative errors of up to will be ignored in the xintercepts you output. However, K must be exactly correct. Constraints le T le le N le le Pi le PN ne Explanation of Sample In the first case, the polynomial is x x. With the order of operations reversed, this is evaluated as x x, which is equal to only when x . In the second case, the polynomial does not evaluate to for any real value x.# Tourist The Facebook campus has N different attractions, numbered from to N in decreasing order of popularity. The name of the ith attraction is Ai, a unique, nonempty string consisting of at most characters. Each character is either a lowercase letter a.z, uppercase letter A.Z, or digit . Alex enjoys visiting the campus repeatedly for tours including the free food. Each time he visits, he has time to see exactly K of the attractions. To decide which K hell see, he sorts the N attractions in nondecreasing order of how many times hes already seen them before, breaking ties in decreasing order of popularity, and then chooses the first K attractions in the sorted list. In other words, he prioritizes seeing attractions which hes seen the fewest number of times previously, but also opts to see the most popular attractions out of the ones hes seen an equal number of times. Alex has visited the Facebook campus V separate times already, and is about to go for his Vth visit. Given that hes always followed the rules stated above, and that hell continue to, hed like to determine which K attractions hell see on his Vth visit. Hed like to list them in decreasing order of popularity in other words, in the same relative order as they appear in the given list of all N attractions. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of campuses. For each campus, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, K, and V. Then, N lines follow. The ith of these lines contains the string Ai. Output For the ith campus, print a line containing Case i followed by K spaceseparated strings, the names of the attractions that Alex sees on his Vth visit, in decreasing order of popularity. Constraints le T le le K le N le le V le Explanation of Sample In the first case, Alex saw the LikeSign on his first visit and the Arcade on his second visit. On his third visit he sees the SweetStop as its the most popular of the attractions he hasnt yet seen. In the third and fourth cases, Alex sees LikeSign, Arcade, SweetStop on his first visit, then LikeSign, Arcade, SwagStore, then LikeSign, SweetStop, SwagStore. # Ethan Traverses a Tree Ethan is doing his second programming assignment implementing preorder tree traversal. Ethan has a binary tree with N nodes numbered to N, rooted at node . Each node is left child is node Ai with Ai indicating no left child, and similarly its right child is Bi with Bi indicating no right child. Each node i is also assigned an integral label Li. Given such a tree, Ethan must compute its preorder traversal expressed as a sequence of node labels. The preorder traversal of a tree involves taking its root node, then concatenating the preorder traversal of the roots left subtree if any, and then concatenating the preorder traversal of the roots right subtree if any. Ethan has attempted to solve this problem, but unfortunately he got his computer science terms mixed up, and now his algorithm finds the trees postorder traversal instead The postorder traversal of a tree involves taking the postorder traversal of the roots left subtree if any, and then concatenating the postorder traversal of the roots right subtree if any, and finally concatenating the root node at the end. Since you were mean to Ethan on his first assignment, youd like to cheer him up by making his algorithm work out after all. Though the trees shape must stay as is, you can choose a set of labels L.N for its nodes such that Ethans algorithm will still produce the correct answer mdash in other words, such that the sequence of node labels in the trees preorder traversal is equal to the sequence of node labels in its postorder traversal. Your only two restrictions are that each node label must be between and K inclusive, and that every integer between and K inclusive must be used as the label of at least one node. Youd like to find any way of validly labelling the nodes, or determine that no way exists. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of trees. For each tree, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and K. Then, N lines follow. The ith of these lines contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Output For the ith tree, print a line containing Case i followed by your chosen node labels L.N separated by spaces, or Impossible if theres no valid way to label the nodes. Constraints le T le le K le N le , le Ai, Bi le N Every tree is guaranteed to be a valid binary tree rooted at node . Explanation of Sample In the first case, if L , then both the preorder and postorder label sequences will be , . In the second case, for each label between and K to be present, you must choose either L , or L , both of which would result in the preorder and postorder label sequences differing. For example, if L , then the preorder sequence will be , while the postorder sequence will be , . In the third case, if L , , then the preorder and postorder label sequences will both be , . Note that other outputs for example cases to would also be accepted.# Evening of the Living Dead A quiet evening has set over a residential area. As families sit down for supper in the safety of their homes, a calm atmosphere permeates the outside air. The neighborhood feels truly at peace, separated from the frenzy of the rest of the world. Also, a bunch of zombies have just risen out of the ground and want to eat everybody. The neighborhood has N yards in a row, numbered from to N. There are also N fences, one between each pair of adjacent yards. The fence between yards i and i has an unknown integral height drawn uniformly at random from the inclusive interval Ai, Bi. In other words, the ith fence has Bi Ai possible heights, each of which is equally likely. M hungry zombies are also present, with the ith of them initially in yard Yi. Fortunately for the zombies, they might not be stopped by the surrounding fences so easily. The ith zombie has the ability to climb over any fence with a height of at most Hi. It may repeatedly move from its current yard to an adjacent one, as long as the fence between the yards is no taller than Hi. Multiple zombies may start in the same yard, and multiple zombies may occupy the same yard at any point. A yard is considered safe if its impossible for any zombies to ever reach it. Determine the probability that at least one of the N yards is safe. Let this probability be represented as a quotient of integers pq in lowest terms. Output the value of this quotient modulo , mdash in other words, output the unique integer x such that leq x lt , and p xq modulo ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of neighborhoods. For each neighborhood, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then, N lines follow. The ith of these lines contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Then, M lines follow. The ith of these lines contains the spaceseparated integers Yi and Hi. Output For the ith neighborhood, print a line containing Case i followed by integer, the probability that at least one of the yards is safe, expressed as a quotient of integers modulo ,. Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , le Ai leq Bi le , le Yi le N le Hi le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, if the height of the single fence is , then the zombie in yard will be able to climb over it to reach yard , meaning that no yards will be safe. Otherwise, if the fences height is , then yard will be safe. Therefore, the probability that at least one of the yards is safe is modulo ,. In the second case, in order for yard to be safe from both surrounding zombies, the first fences height must be either or , and the second fences height must be . The probability of this occurring is modulo ,. In the third case, the probability of at least one yard being safe is modulo ,.# Let It Flow Youve been hired for a boring plumbing installation job. Youll be installing pipes into a house which can be modeled as a grid with rows and N columns. The jth cell in the ith row of the grid is described by the character Gi,j, and is either empty if Gi,j . or is blocked by a wall if Gi,j . Theres already a pipe incoming into the left edge of the topleft cell, and another pipe leaving from the right edge of the bottomright cell. For example, the house might initially look as follows Your job is to install one or more additional pipes in empty cells throughout the house, such that water can successfully flow through them from the topleft pipe all the way to the bottomright one. You have access to a whole lot of pipes, but unfortunately theyre all of a single type mdash elbowshaped. When you install such a pipe in a cell, it allows water to flow in from one edge of the cell, make a degree turn either clockwise or counterclockwise, and flow out from another edge of the cell. Each pipe may be installed in any of the following four rotations Pipes may only be installed into empty cells, and no cell may contain multiple pipes. So as to not waste equipment, each pipe installed must end up actually contributing to the flow of water in other words, you may not install a pipe if it could be removed without disrupting the flow of water from the topleft pipe to the bottomright one. For example, the following diagram illustrates the only valid set of pipes which could be installed into the house shown above To make the job less boring, youre interested in counting the number of different valid sets of pipes which you might choose to install. As this number may be large, you only want to compute its value modulo ,. Two sets of pipes are considered to be different if one of them includes a pipe in a cell which is left empty in the other, or if at least one pipe is installed in a different rotation between them. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of houses. For each house, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then, lines follow, each containing a string of length N containing only the characters . and . The jth character of the ith line is Gi,j. Output For the ith house, print a line containing Case i followed by the number of different valid sets of pipes which could be installed in the ith house modulo ,. Constraints le T le le N le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, pipes can be installed only as follows The third case is explained in the problem statement above.# Platform Parkour Youre about to put on an exciting show at your local circus mdash a parkour demonstration N platforms with adjustable heights have been set up in a row, and are numbered from to N in order from left to right. The initial height of platform i is Hi metres. When the show starts, M parkourists will take the stage. The ith parkourist will start at platform Ai, with the goal of reaching a different platform Bi. If Bi gt Ai, theyll repeatedly jump to the next platform to their right until they reach Bi. If Bi lt Ai, theyll instead repeatedly jump to the next platform to their left until they reach Bi. All of the parkourists will complete their routes simultaneously but dont worry, theyve been trained well to not impede one another. Not all parkourists are equally talented, and there are limits on how far up or down they can jump between successive platforms. The ith parkourists maximum upwards and downwards jump heights are Ui and Di, respectively. This means that theyre only able to move directly from platform x to some adjacent platform y if Hx Di leq Hy leq Hx Ui, where Hx and Hy are the current heights of platforms x and y, respectively. With the show about to begin, a disastrous flaw has just occurred to you mdash it may not be possible for all of the parkourists to actually complete their routes with the existing arrangement of platforms If so, you will need to quickly adjust some of the platforms heights first. The height of each platform may be adjusted upwards or downwards at a rate of metre per second, to any nonnegative realvalued height of your choice, and multiple platforms may be adjusted simultaneously. As such, if the initial height of platform i is Hi and its final height is Pi, then the total time required to make your chosen height adjustments will be maxHi Pi over i.N. Determine the minimum amount of time required to set up the platforms such that all M parkourists will then be able to complete their required routes. Note that you may not perform further height adjustments once the show starts. The platform heights must all remain constant while all M parkourists complete their routes. In order to reduce the size of the input data, youre given H and H. H.N may then be generated as follows using given constants W, X, Y, and Z please watch out for integer overflow during this process Hi W Hi X Hi Y Z for i.N Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of shows. For each show, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. The next line contains the spaceseparated integers H, H, W, X, Y, and Z. Then, M lines follow. The ith of these lines contains the spaceseparated integers Ai, Bi, Ui, and Di. Output For the ith show, print a line containing Case i followed by real number, the minimum amount of time required to set up the platforms in seconds. Absolute and relative errors of up to will be ignored. Constraints le T le le N le , le M le le Hi lt Z le W, X, Y lt Z le Z le , le Ai, Bi le N le Ui, Di le , Ai, ne Bi Explanation of Sample In the first case, H , . You can increase the first platforms height by . and decrease the seconds by . in . seconds, yielding P ., . The single parkourist will then be able to successfully complete their route from platform to platform by jumping upwards by a height of at most . In the second case, H , , . One optimal possibility is P ., ., ., ., . In the third case, H , , . In the fourth case, H , , , , .# Ethan Finds the Shortest Path Ethan is doing his third programming assignment finding the shortest path between two nodes in a graph. Given an undirected, weighted graph with N nodes numbered from to N, having no selfloops or duplicate edges, Ethan must compute the length of the shortest path from node to node N. Ethan has implemented an algorithm to solve this problem, described by the following pseudocode Set i to be equal to , and d to be equal to If i is equal to N, output d and stop Find the edge incident to node i that has the smallest weight if no edges are incident to i or if there are multiple such edges tied with the smallest weight, then crash instead Increase d by the weight of this edge, and set i to be equal to the other node incident to this edge Return to Step Since you were nice to Ethan on his second assignment, and since that encouragement clearly hasnt helped improve the quality of his code, youd like to find a graph that shows as clearly as possible why this solution is incorrect. Youre given the number of nodes in the graph N, as well as the maximum allowable edge weight K each edges weight must be an integer in the interval , K. Under these constraints you want to maximize the absolute difference between Ethans output and the actual shortest distance between nodes and N. However, you dont want Ethans algorithm to either crash or run forever. Note that node N must actually be reachable from node in the graph, though the graph may be otherwise disconnected. You can output any valid graph which gets the job done. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of graphs. For each graph, there is a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and K. Output For the ith graph, first output a line containing Case i followed by the maximum possible absolute difference between Ethans algorithms output and the correct answer. Then, output a line containing as single integer E, the number of edges in your chosen graph which yields the above maximum absolute difference. Then, output E lines, the jth of which contains three integers Uj, Vj, and Wj denoting that there is an edge between nodes Uj and Vj with weight Wj. Note that there must be no selfloops no edge may connect a node to itself, and no two edges may connect the same unordered pair of nodes. Constraints le T le le N le le K le Explanation of Sample In the first case, there are exactly two possible valid graphs, either of which would be accepted In each of the above graphs, Ethans algorithms answer and the correct answer are both equal to . Theres an absolute difference of between those answers, which is the maximum possible absolute difference. In the second case, one possible graph which would be accepted is as follows with Ethans algorithms answer and the correct answer both equal to In the third case, one possible graph which would be accepted is as follows with Ethans algorithms answer and the correct answer both equal to Putting those together, the following is one possible sequence of outputs for the first cases which would be accepted Case Case Case Do not output the line Multiple possible accepted graphs. # Fossil Fuels The Earth is gripped by an energy crisis. Theres simply not enough to go around Desperate to unlock additional sources of energy, James has decided to direct his attention downwards. Perhaps enough fossils can be found underground and harvested for just a bit more fuel James has surveyed a linear stretch of ground, and has fortunately discovered N fossils beneath the surface From a crosssectional view, the ith fossil is at position Pi metres along the stretch of ground, at a depth of Di metres below the surface. No two fossils are in exactly the same spot at both the same position and depth. The next question is, of course, how the fossils might be unearthed most efficiently. James plans to dig one or more vertical mine shafts in order to access all N fossils. A mine shaft is defined by a position p and a depth d. Such a mine shaft can be represented as a vertical line segment at position p metres along the stretch of ground, running from the surface to a point d metres below the surface. James can dig such a shaft at a cost of S d dollars, where S is a constant. Once it has been dug, its possible to reach fossils from the shaft by descending to the correct depth and then digging horizontally through the earth at no additional cost, up to a distance of at most M metres away from the shaft, where M is another constant. In other words, each fossil i is accessible from the shaft if Di le d and Pi p le M. Note that a mine shaft is permitted to pass directly through a fossil such that p Pi for some i. Help James determine the minimum total cost of mine shafts which he must dig, such that each of the N fossils will end up being accessible from at least one of the shafts. In order to reduce the size of the input data, the sequences P.N and D.N will be derived from a series of temporary sequences A.K, the ith of of which has a length of Li. P.N can be constructed by concatenating together A.K, while D.N can be constructed by concatenating together AK.K. Its guaranteed that the sum of L.K is equal to N, as is the sum of LK.K. For each sequence Ai, youre given Ai, and Ai,.Li may then be generated as follows using given constants Xi, Yi, and Zi please watch out for integer overflow during this process Ai,j Xi Ai,j Yi Zi for j .Li Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of sets of fossils. For each set of fossils, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, S, M, and K. Then, K lines follow. The ith of these contains the spaceseparated integers Li, Ai, Xi, Yi, and Zi. Output For the ith set of fossils, output a line containing Case i followed by the minimum total cost of mine shafts which James must dig in dollars. Constraints le T le le N le , le S, M le , le K le le Pi, Di, Ai,j le , le Li le N le Xi, Yi lt Zi le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, P , and D , . James should dig a single mine shaft with p and d at a cost of dollars, from which both fossils are barely accessible. In the second case, P , and D , . James now requires two mine shafts for example one with p and d and another with p and d , at a total cost of dollars. In the third case, P , , and D , , . In the fourth case, P , , , , , , , , , , and D , , , , , , , , , , .# Jacks Candy Shop Jack is a little boy with big dreams to own the biggest candy shop in the world Hes off to a modest start with N candies for sale, numbered from to N . The price of candy i is i dollars. In his shops front window, Jack has arranged his candies in the shape of a tree rooted at candy , with the parent of each other candy i le i lt N being candy Pi. M other kids in Jacks neighbourhood have agreed to come by and be his first customers Jack has assigned them customer numbers from to M . Unfortunately, these kids are a bit picky when it comes to sweets. Customer i only likes candies within the subtree rooted at candy Ci. This means that theyre only willing to purchase a candy if its either candy Ci, or one of its children, or one of its childrens children, and so on. They also have amazing selfrestraint mdash each customer will limit themselves to buying at most one candy. For each of the M customers, Jack may either sell them any single candy of his choice within the customers required subtree, or no candy at all. Each of the N candies may be sold to at most one customer. Jack is willing to do whatever it takes to achieve his dreams, even if it means extorting as much cash as possible from fellow children. As such, hed like to choose candies to sell such that the sum of their prices is maximized. Can you help him determine this maximum sum of candy prices In order to reduce the size of the input data, C.M may be generated as follows using given constants A and B Ci A i B N for i . M Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of trees. For each tree, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, M, A, and B. Then N lines follow, the ith of which indexed contains the single integer Pi. Output For the ith tree, output a line containing Case i followed by the maximum possible sum of prices of candies which Jack can sell. Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , le A, B, Pi, Ci lt N It is guaranteed that each test case describes a single valid tree rooted at candy . Explanation of Sample In the first case, C . The only customer can be sold any candy in candy s subtree, which includes candies and . Jack should choose to sell them candy , which has a price of dollar. In the second case, C , . Jack should sell candy to customer , candy to customer , and no candy to customer . The sum of these candy prices is dollars. In the third case, C , , .# Replay Value Allison has just developed the latest addictive mobile game Super Path Drawer Extreme Edition This game takes place on an infinite D plane thanks to advancements in graphical technology, the entire plane can fit onto a mobile phone screen. Two distinct points on the plane are chosen a starting point at coordinates , S, and an ending point at coordinates , E. The players goal is to draw a path from the starting point to the ending point. The path may be any continuous curve on the plane not necessarily a straight line segment, and may cross itself. If the player successfully draws such a path, theyre rewarded with a point, thus convincing them that their time is being put to good use. If they fail to draw such a path, theyre instead forced to watch an ad, thus motivating them to do better on their next attempt. By itself, this game is certainly addicting, but it doesnt seem to cause players to watch enough ads So, as a lastminute addition, Allison has inserted some lasers. There are N laser emitters, the ith of which is at Xi, Yi. Each emitter will emit a laser beam either directly up, down, left, or right. The laser beam is a ray starting from the emitters position inclusive and continuing infinitely in the selected direction. Naturally, the players path may not touch any part of any laser beam. All N xcoordinates of the starting point, ending point, and laser emitters are distinct, and all N ycoordinates are also distinct, meaning that its impossible for a laser beam to ever directly hit the starting point, ending point, or another emitter. Allison hasnt programmed in the capability for moving laser emitters around, but she can at least cause them to emit their laser beams in different combinations of directions each time a player replays the game. Shes concerned that players will get bored as soon as they encounter a laser configuration which theyve already seen, so shell make sure that each player is presented with each of the N possible different laser configurations exactly once. Some laser configurations result in the ending point still being reachable from the starting point by some continuous path which doesnt touch any laser beams, in which case players will surely manage to find such a path. But for other laser configurations, no valid path exists at all, resulting in a forced ad showcase. Allison would like to count the total number of ads which a player will end up watching upon playing the game once for each of the N possible different laser configurations. As this value can be large, you only need to compute it modulo ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of sets of lasers. For each set of lasers, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, S, and E. Then, N lines follow. The ith of these contains the spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi. Output For the ith set of lasers, output a line containing Case i followed by the number of ads shown to each player, modulo ,. Constraints le T le le N le le S, E, Xi, Yi le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, of the possible laser configurations result in the ending point being unreachable from the starting point. One such configuration is when the first emitter points down, the second points up, and the third points right. Another is when the first emitter points down, the second points left, and the third points down. # Ethan Finds the Maximum Subarray Sum In preparation for his final exam, Ethan is doing his fourth programming assignment finding the subarray with the maximum sum in an array of integers. Given an array of N integers A.N, Ethans task is to find the maximum sum of any possibly empty contiguous subarray of A. Ethan has implemented an algorithm to solve this problem, described by the following pseudocode nbspnbspnbsp . Set s and m to both be equal to . nbspnbspnbsp . Iterate i upwards from to N nbspnbspnbspnbspnbsp a. If Ai ge , increment s by Ai, otherwise set s to be equal to . nbspnbspnbspnbspnbsp b. If s gt m, set m to be equal to s. nbspnbspnbsp . Output m. Is there any hope for Ethan With exasperation, you set out in vain to teach another lesson. The professor of the class has once again left you with some halfwritten test cases. Youre given an initial array B.M, such that the absolute value of each element is at most K. Youd like to insert M more integers into the array, one between each pair of adjacent elements in the original array, to construct a new array A.N where N M . Each of the inserted elements must likewise have an absolute value of at most K. Youll then feed the new array A into Ethans algorithm. Your goal is to maximize the absolute difference between the final arrays correct maximum subarray sum and the output of Ethans algorithm. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers M and K. Then one more line follows containing the M spaceseparated integers B through BM. Output For the ith test case, output a line containing Case i followed by the maximum possible absolute difference between the correct maximum subarray sum and the output of Ethans algorithm. Constraints le T le le M le le K le K le Ai le K Explanation of Sample In the first case, A , and both Ethans answer and the correct answer are equal to . In the second case, A , and both Ethans answer and the correct answer are equal to . In the third case, one value will be inserted into B, and you should choose to insert to yield A , . This results in Ethans answer being and the correct answer being , yielding an absolute answer difference of . In the fourth case, there are multiple choices of inserted elements which result in an absolute answer difference of . For example, its possible for Ethans answer equal to be made to equal while the correct answer equals .# Finshakes You know what a finshake is, right Its just like a handshake. Except performed by fish rather than humans. There are N pools of water in a row, numbered from to N in order. Pool is water level is at an elevation of Hi metres. There are N equallytall walls, one between each pair of adjacent pools, with the top of each wall at an elevation of W metres. All of the water levels are lower than the tops of the walls in other words, Hi lt W for each i. There are also M fish throughout the pools. The ith fish initially lives in pool Pi, and has a jumping height of Ji metres. It can jump over a wall from any given pool a to an adjacent pool b such that a b if and only if Ji gt W Ha. Multiple fish may live in the same pool. Each of the M fish will spend some time jumping over walls amongst the pools, before each choosing a final pool to settle in. After all of the fish have settled down, for each unique unordered pair of fish who have ended up in the same pool as one another, they will give each other a finshake. Assuming the fish all work together, whats the maximum number of finshakes which can occur once theyve all settled down in their chosen pools Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of rows of pools. For each row of pools, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, M, and W. Then follows a line containing the N spaceseparated integers H through HN. Then M lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Pi and Ji. Output For the ith row of pools, output a line containing Case i followed by the maximum number of finshakes which can occur. Constraints le T le le N le le M le le W le , le Hi lt W le Pi le N le Ji le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, neither fish has a sufficient jumping height to jump over the wall from its own pool to the other pool. As such, each fish must remain isolated in its own pool, resulting in finshakes being exchanged. In the second case, the second fish has sufficient jumping strength to go back and forth over the wall. It should choose to settle in the first pool. With both fish ending up in the same pool, theyll exchange finshake. In the third case, the first fish is unable to leave the first pool. The fourth fish could decide to choose to stay in the first pool as well, and give the first fish a finshake. However, its better for the last fish to all congregate in the second pool instead, as this will result in a total of finshakes being exchanged amongst them.# Graph Gift What day is it today Wasnt there something you were supposed to remember Eh, it was probably nothing. . Wait Oh no Its your anniversary today And you dont have a gift for your spouse Only one thing can save you now online shopping. Logging onto your favourite shopping site, the top automated suggestion looks perfect or at least passable mdash a graph. Your spouse probably loves graphs, right More importantly, it can be delivered directly to your house within half an hour. The graph comes with N nodes, the ith of which is labelled with a nonzero integer Li. Unfortunately, no edges are included by default mdash you have to pay extra for those. Youd better purchase one or more edges so that it looks like you put extensive thought into your gift. Purchasing an undirected edge between two different nodes i and j costs Li Lj dollars note that this cost may be negative, in which case you actually receive money for purchasing that edge. You wont purchase more than one edge between any unordered pair of nodes, and you wont purchase any selfloops edges connecting a node directly to itself. In order to make the graph appealing to your spouse, youve decided that it should have the following two properties Each node should be adjacent to at least one other node. Each node with a positive label should be adjacent to at most one node with a negative label. Any such graph should make a fine gift, so. you might as well go with the cheapest option, right Youd like to determine the minimum possible total cost of edges to purchase which result in a graph with both properties described above. Note that this total cost may be negative. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then one more line follows containing the N spaceseparated integers L through LN. Output For the ith test case, output a line containing Case i followed by the minimum cost in dollars required to complete the graph gift. Constraints le T le le N le , , le Li le , Li ne Explanation of Sample In the first case, you should purchase an edge between the two nodes for a cost of . In the second case, you should purchase an edge from the third node to each of the other nodes, for a cost of . # Jammin Uriel is an android programmed for a singular purpose mdash to obtain jam. Hes found himself in a row of cells, some of which hopefully contain raspberry jam for him to gather in the form of special jars called jammers. There are C cells in the row, and their contents are described by a string C, with the ith character of C corresponding to the ith cell. Each character is one of the following . Empty cell Cell initially containing a jammer Cell containing a laser barrier By default, each laser barrier is active. However, whenever a laser barrier has at least one jammer in an adjacent cell to its left or right, that laser barrier becomes jammed by the jammers jam, and becomes inactive instead. A laser barrier may switch back and forth between being inactive and active if jammers next to it are added or removed. A single jammer may be responsible for jamming multiple laser barriers at once. Uriel begins in the first cell which is guaranteed to be empty. He has the ability to carry around any number of jammers at once, though he initially has of them. At each point in time, he may choose to perform one of the following actions Pick up a jammer from his current cell. He may only do so if the cell contains a jammer. That cell will then become empty. Place one of his jammers into his current cell. He may only do so if hes holding at least one jammer, and if the cell is currently completely empty it doesnt contain another jammer, and doesnt contain a laser barrier, even if its inactive. Walk left or right into an adjacent cell, without leaving the row of cells. He may only do so if that cell doesnt currently contain an active laser barrier. Uriel isnt interested in consuming any jam, he just wants to hold onto it mdash onto as much of it as he can. As such, hed like to determine the maximum number of jammers which he can ever end up holding at a single time, after performing any number of moves of his choice. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of rows of cells. For each row of cells, there is a single line containing the string C as described above. Output For the ith row of cells, output a line containing Case i followed by the maximum number of jammers which Uriel can end up holding at once. Constraints le T le le C le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, there are no laser barriers, so Uriel can simply walk to the right while picking up each jammer he comes across, allowing him to end up with jammers by the end. In the second case, Uriel is immediately left with no valid moves, as theres an active laser barrier to his right and hes not holding any jammers. In the third case, the first laser barrier which Uriel encounters is already inactive due to the jammer to its right, meaning that he can walk through it. The second laser barrier is initially active, but Uriel can jam it by putting down a jammer to its left. After collecting the rightmost jammer, Uriel can return to pick up the jammer that he previously put down to end up with all jammers simultaneously in his possession. # City Lights Dahlia is taking a roadtrip across all of Canada Along the way, shes spending a night in one of the countrys hallmark cities, Toronto. Torontos nighttime skyline can be represented as a D plane, with the ground forming a horizontal line with ycoordinate . There are W building windows, with the ith one at coordinates XWi, YWi. There are also S visible stars, with the ith one at coordinates XSi, YSi. Its guaranteed that all W S of these points are distinct, and that no star is directly below a window having the same xcoordinate but a smaller ycoordinate. At night, its impossible to see any given window unless theres light coming from it. On any given night, each window is independently either lit up or not with equal probability. As such, there are W equallylikely subsets of windows which might be visible. Dahlia finds herself looking at Torontos skyline on one such random night. Dahlia knows that Toronto consists of or more buildings, each of which covers a rectangular portion of the sky with some bottomleft corner x, and some topright corner x, h, for some real values of x, x, and h such that x lt x and h gt . The buildings might overlap with one another. Based on Dahlias view of the stars and litup windows, she can infer some things about the set of buildings present. In particular, for each litup window i, Dahlia realizes that there must be at least one building whose rectangle inclusively covers the point XWi, YWi. Furthermore, for each star i, Dahlia realizes that there must be no buildings whose rectangles inclusively cover the point XSi, YSi. Dahlia is going to assume that Toronto consists of as few buildings as possible which are consistent with her observations on that night. Whats the expected number of buildings which shell assume exist In order to avoid floatingpoint arithmetic and large integers, output this expected number multiplied by W which is guaranteed to result in an integer and then taken modulo ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of skylines. For each skyline, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers W and S. Then, W lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers XWi and YWi. Then, S lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers XSi and YSi. Output For the ith universe, output a line containing Case i the expected number of buildings which Dahlia will assume exist, multiplied by W and then taken modulo ,. Constraints le T le le W le le S le le XWi, YWi, XSi, YSi le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, theres a chance that the single window will be visible, in which case Dahlia will assume that Toronto has building. Theres also a chance that it wont be visible, in which case shell assume that there are buildings. As such, the expected number of buildings which shell assume exist is . This should then be multiplied by and taken modulo , to produce a final answer of . In the second case, however many windows are visible, Dahlia will assume Toronto has that many buildings. For example, if both windows are visible, then there must be at least buildings, as a single building cant account for both windows without also covering the single visible star. This results in a final answer of modulo , . In the third case, the final answer is modulo , .# Contest Environment The Hacker Cup finals are underway The contest is being held in a room with rows of N desks each, with finalists sitting at some of them. One of the finalists, Alex, is sitting at the leftmost desk in the front row. Another finalist, Borys, is sitting at the rightmost desk in the front row. Unfortunately, both of them find themselves distracted by the contest rooms environment mdash Alex is a bit too hot on his side of the room, while Borys is a bit too cold. If only they could switch places Unfortunately, this would be against the rules, but if they work together with some other contestants, perhaps they can manage it without the contest organizers noticing. The initial state of each row of desks can be represented by a string of N characters, with the ith character corresponding to the ith desk from the left in that row. Each character is one of the following nbspnbspnbspnbspnbsp A Alexs desk guaranteed to appear exactly once, as the leftmost desk in the front row nbspnbspnbspnbspnbsp B Boryss desk guaranteed to appear exactly once, as the rightmost desk in the front row nbspnbspnbspnbspnbsp A cooperative finalists desk nbspnbspnbspnbspnbsp An uncooperative finalists desk nbspnbspnbspnbspnbsp . An unoccupied desk At any point, a single finalist may move from their current desk to an adjacent, currentlyunoccupied desk. Two desks are considered adjacent if either theyre in the same column, or theyre directly sidebyside in the same row. However, the finalists wont be foolish enough to move sideways between two desks in the front row, as that would surely attract the contest organizers attention. Alex, Borys, and any cooperative finalists may all move between desks in this fashion. On the other hand, uncooperative finalists are too busy actually competing, and will never move from their original desks. Assuming that Alex, Borys, and the cooperative finalists all work together, is it possible for Alex and Borys to switch seats in other words, for Alex to occupy the front rows rightmost desk while Borys simultaneously occupies its leftmost desk without the contest organizers noticing Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of parallel universes in which the Hacker Cup is occurring. For each universe, there are two lines of N characters each, as described above. The first line is the front row of desks, and the second line is the back row of desks. Output For the ith universe, output a line containing Case i followed by the string Possible if Alex and Borys can successfully switch seats, or Impossible otherwise. Constraints le T le le N le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, the contest room looks as follows with grey lines indicating adjacent desks which finalists may potentially move between. The blue circle denotes a cooperative finalist, and the gray square denotes an uncooperative finalist. A and B denote Alex and Borys respectively. One possible sequence of moves resulting in Alex and Borys switching places is as follows with some moves omitted In the second case, Alex and Borys are unable to get past one another and switch seats.# Ethan Sums Shortest Distances The final exam is here, and its now or never for Ethan. His current grade is abysmal so he needs a strong showing on this exam to have any chance of passing his introductory computer science class. The exam has only one question devise an algorithm to compute the compactness of a grid tree. Ethan recalls that a grid tree is simply an unweighted tree with N nodes that you can imagine being embedded within a xN grid. The top row of the grid contains the nodes . N from left to right, and the bottom row of the grid contains the nodes N . N from left to right. Every edge in a grid tree connects a pair of nodes which are adjacent in the xN grid. Two nodes are considered adjacent if either theyre in the same column, or theyre directly sidebyside in the same row. There must be exactly N edges that connect the N nodes to form a single tree. Additionally, the ith node in the grid tree is labelled with an integer Ai. What was compactness again After some intense thought, Ethan comes up with the following pseudocode to compute the compactness, c, of a grid tree nbspnbspnbspnbspnbsp . Set c to be equal to . nbspnbspnbspnbspnbsp . Iterate i upwards from to N nbspnbspnbspnbspnbspnbspnbsp a. Iterate j upwards from i to N nbspnbspnbspnbspnbspnbspnbspnbspnbsp b. Increase c by Ai Aj ShortestDistancei, j nbspnbspnbspnbspnbsp . Output c. ShortestDistancei, j is a function which returns the number of edges on the shortest path from node i to node j in the tree, which Ethan has implemented correctly. In fact, his whole algorithm is quite correct for once. This is exactly how you compute compactness Theres just one issue mdash in his code, Ethan has chosen to store c using a rather small integer type, which is at risk of overflowing if c becomes too large Ethan is so close Feeling sorry for him, youd like to make some lastminute changes to the tree in order to minimize the final value of c, and thus minimize the probability that it will overflow in Ethans program and cost him muchneeded marks. You cant change any of the node labels A.N, but you may choose your own set of N edges to connect them into a grid tree. For example, if A , , , then the grid of nodes looks like this Youd like to determine the minimum possible compactness which Ethans program can produce given a valid tree of your choice. For example, one optimal tree for the above grid of nodes which results in the minimum possible compactness of is as follows Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of trees. For each tree, there are three lines. The first line contains the single integer N. The second line contains the N spaceseparated integers A.N. The third line contains the N spaceseparated integers AN.N. Output For the ith tree, output a line containing Case i followed by the minimum possible output of Ethans program. Constraints le T le le N le le Ai le , Explanation of Sample One optimal tree for the first case is given above. For that tree, Ethans program would compute c as the sum of the following values with some values omitted A A ShortestDistance, A A ShortestDistance, . A A ShortestDistance, A A ShortestDistance, . A A ShortestDistance, A A ShortestDistance, In the second case, theres only one possible tree, for which c . In the third case, two of the four possible trees are optimal the ones omitting either the topmost or leftmost potential edge. # Personal Space Phineas is the proud owner of an enormous new fish tank Looking at the fish tank from the side, it can be represented as an infinite D plane. Phineas has installed N vertical dividers into the tank, the ith of which is a line segment connecting points Xi, Ai and Xi, Bi. No two dividers overlap at any point including at their endpoints. Unfortunately, Phineass fish tank is lacking in fish, but hell soon rectify that Hes going to place one or more fish into the tank, with each one initially occupying any point of his choice each coordinate may be nonintegral and arbitrarily small or large. No fishs location may overlap with any of the dividers including their endpoints, but multiple fish may be placed at the same coordinates. After the fish have been placed, each one may swim left and right freely continuously decreasing or increasing its xcoordinate, as long as it never touches a divider including its endpoints. Fish do not block one another from swimming, so multiple fish are able to occupy the same coordinates. However, no fish is able to change its ycoordinate. At any given moment, each fish feels that its personal space is violated if any other fish is currently at the same xcoordinate as it either at its current ycoordinate, or arbitrarily far above or below it. As such, if two fish ever occupy the same xcoordinate as one another, they both become unhappy. Phineas suspects that someones planning on stealing one of his dividers soon after he places fish into the tank And he wants to ensure that none of his fish have any chance of becoming unhappy But he still wants to have as many fish as possible As such, hed like to determine the maximum number of fish which he can place into the tank such that, no matter which single one of the N dividers is subsequently removed, and no matter how the fish then decide to swim around, none of the fish can ever become unhappy. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of fish tanks. For each fish tank, there is first a line containing the single integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Xi, Ai, and Bi. Output For the ith fish tank, output a line containing Case i followed by the maximum number of fish which Phineas can place into the tank with no risk of unhappiness. Constraints le T le le N le , le Xi le , le Ai lt Bi le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, Phineas could, for example, place a fish at coordinates , . If he placed another fish anywhere else in the tank for example at coordinates , then if the single divider were removed, both fish would be able to swim freely and might come to occupy the same xcoordinate as one another. In the second case, Phineas can place one fish at coordinates , and another at coordinates , . In the third case, no matter where Phineas might place two fish in the tank, at least one choice of removed divider would result in them potentially becoming unhappy. # Stockholm Melody is visiting the beautiful city of Stockholm, Sweden Stockholm has a number of waterways flowing through it, dividing the city up into a number of islands. Like most visitors, Melody was surprised to learn that there are in fact an infinite number of waterways and an infinite number of islands The waterways flow between an infinite number of junctions, which are numbered with nonnegative integers starting from . Theres an infinitelylong waterway flowing into junction , and then for each junction j, there are two waterways flowing out of it into junctions j and j. This results in each junction having exactly three incident waterways. An island is a connected region of land. Each waterway is adjacent to two different islands one on each side of it, and has a bridge connecting those two islands together. Each junction is adjacent to three different islands the distinct islands adjacent to its incident waterways. A portion of Stockholm including junctions to is illustrated below, with islands represented as contiguous regions filled with various shades of grey, and bridges between them represented as brown curves Melody is currently aboard a friends boat parked at some junction A, but she wants to visit another friends boat which is parked at a different junction B. Shell begin by getting out of the first boat onto any of the three islands of her choice which are adjacent to junction A. Shell then walk on land until she arrives at any of the three islands which are adjacent to junction B, potentially crossing some bridges between islands along the way. Finally, shell board the second boat from that island. Melodys not a big fan of walking on Stockholms rather unevenly cobbled bridges, so shed like to cross as few of them as possible along the way. Help her determine the minimum number of bridges which she must cross to walk from junction A to junction B For example, the following illustration indicates the only optimal path from junction to junction in red crossing only bridge, and one of the optimal paths from junction to junction in yellow crossing only bridges Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of times Melody needs to travel between two junctions. For each trip, there is a single line containing the spaceseparated integers A and B. Output For the ith trip, output a line containing Case i followed by the minimum number of bridges which Melody must cross to walk from junction A to junction B. Constraints le T le , le A, B le A ne B Explanation of Sample The first two cases are described above. In the third and fourth cases, its unnecessary for Melody to cross any bridges. # The Claw Oh boy, Sids family has taken him to Pizza Planet today Pizza Planet is a fun family restaurant with lots of arcade games, but the highlight for Sid is Space Crane, a crane game with cool toy prizes. Hed love to win some to add to his collection Looking at Space Crane from the front, it can be represented as a D plane. At the top, theres a horizontal crane track, a line segment running from , M to , M. Theres a claw attached to this track by an extendible wire. The claw is initially located at coordinates , M and may be moved anywhere within the inclusive range of xcoordinates , and the inclusive range of ycoordinates , M. At all points in time, the connecting wire runs vertically upwards from the claws position to the track. That is, when the claw is at some point x, y, the wire forms a line segment from x, y to x, M. Space Crane works differently than most crane games mdash rather than using the claw to directly pick up prizes, the players objective is to navigate the claw to a series of targets. There are N targets, all with distinct xcoordinates, with the ith target at coordinates Xi, Yi. If Sid manages to move the claw to touch the N targets in order from to N, and then return the claw to its original position at , M, hell win a prize Targets are not collected along the way theyre only touched by the claw, meaning that all N targets will remain in place for the duration of the game. The claw may never be anywhere directly underneath a target at the same xcoordinate but with a strictly smaller ycoordinate, as it would interfere with the cranes wire. However, the claw may occupy exactly the same position as a target, including passing directly through targets which Sid is not currently trying to touch. Before the game starts, Sid is given an opportunity to adjust each of the N targets. There are two possible choices for each target it may either be left in its original position, or its ycoordinate may be increased by exactly unit. These adjustments may only be performed in advance, and the targets must then all remain in their chosen positions for the duration of the game. Completing the game normally isnt much of a challenge for Sid, but hes heard a rumour that Space Crane awards double prizes if completed as efficiently as possible The game measures efficiency based on how much the claws wire expands and contracts. As such, Sid would like to adjust the targets and then move the claw around such that the total amount of vertical movement changes in ycoordinate performed by the claw is minimized. Note that the claws horizontal movement changes in xcoordinate is ignored. Help Sid determine the minimum total amount of vertical claw movement which might be required Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of times Sid plays Space Crane. For each game, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi. Output For the ith game, output a line containing Case i followed by the the minimum total amount of vertical claw movement, in units. Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , le Xi le , le Yi le M Explanation of Sample In the first case, the single targets height should be increased from to . Then, aside from moving right and left by , units, the crane will need to move downwards by units to reach the target and upwards by units to return to its original position, for a total of units of vertical movement. In the second case, if the targets are all left at their original heights, units of vertical movement will be required. If their heights are all increased by , units will be required. However, if just the first two targets are raised, then only units will be required, which is the minimum achievable amount.# Leapfrog Ch. This problem statement differs from that of Leapfrog Ch. in only one spot, highlighted in bold below. A colony of frogs peacefully resides in a pond. The colony is led by a single Alpha Frog, and also includes or more Beta Frogs. In order to be a good leader, the Alpha Frog diligently studies the high art of fractions every day. There are N lilypads in a row on the ponds surface, numbered to N from left to right, each of which is large enough to fit at most one frog at a time. Today, the Alpha Frog finds itself on the leftmost lilypad, and must leap its way to the rightmost lilypad before it can begin its fractions practice. The initial state of each lilypad i is described by a character Li, which is one of the following A Occupied by the Alpha Frog its guaranteed that Li A if and only if i B Occupied by a Beta Frog . Unoccupied At each point in time, one of the following things may occur The Alpha Frog may leap over one or more lilypads immediately to its right which are occupied by Beta Frogs, and land on the next unoccupied lilypad past them, if such a lilypad exists. The Alpha Frog must leap over at least one Beta Frog it may not just leap to an adjacent lilypad. Note that, unlike in Leapfrog Ch. , the Alpha Frog may only leap to its right. Any Beta Frog may leap to the next lilypad to either its left or right, if such a lilypad exists and is unoccupied. Assuming the frogs all cooperate, determine whether or not its possible for the Alpha Frog to ever reach the rightmost lilypad and begin its daily fractions practice. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of days on which the Alpha Frog studies fractions. For each day, there is a single line containing the lengthN string L. Output For the ith day, print a line containing Case i followed by a single character Y if the Alpha Frog can reach the rightmost lilypad, or N otherwise. Constraints le T le le N le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, the Alpha Frog cant leap anywhere. In the second case, the Alpha Frog can leap over the Beta Frog to reach the rightmost lilypad. In the third case, neither the Alpha Frog nor either of the Beta Frogs can leap anywhere. In the fourth case, if the first Beta Frog leaps one lilypad to the left, and then the second Beta Frog also leaps one lilypad to the left, then the Alpha Frog can leap over both of them to reach the rightmost lilypad.# Leapfrog Ch. This problem statement differs from that of Leapfrog Ch. in only one spot, highlighted in bold below. A colony of frogs peacefully resides in a pond. The colony is led by a single Alpha Frog, and also includes or more Beta Frogs. In order to be a good leader, the Alpha Frog diligently studies the high art of fractions every day. There are N lilypads in a row on the ponds surface, numbered to N from left to right, each of which is large enough to fit at most one frog at a time. Today, the Alpha Frog finds itself on the leftmost lilypad, and must leap its way to the rightmost lilypad before it can begin its fractions practice. The initial state of each lilypad i is described by a character Li, which is one of the following A Occupied by the Alpha Frog its guaranteed that Li A if and only if i B Occupied by a Beta Frog . Unoccupied At each point in time, one of the following things may occur The Alpha Frog may leap over one or more lilypads immediately to either its left or right which are occupied by Beta Frogs, and land on the next unoccupied lilypad past them, if such a lilypad exists. The Alpha Frog must leap over at least one Beta Frog it may not just leap to an adjacent lilypad. Note that, unlike in Leapfrog Ch. , the Alpha Frog may leap to either its left or right. Any Beta Frog may leap to the next lilypad to either its left or right, if such a lilypad exists and is unoccupied. Assuming the frogs all cooperate, determine whether or not its possible for the Alpha Frog to ever reach the rightmost lilypad and begin its daily fractions practice. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of days on which the Alpha Frog studies fractions. For each day, there is a single line containing the lengthN string L. Output For the ith day, print a line containing Case i followed by a single character Y if the Alpha Frog can reach the rightmost lilypad, or N otherwise. Constraints le T le le N le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, the Alpha Frog cant leap anywhere. In the second case, the Alpha Frog can leap over the Beta Frog to reach the rightmost lilypad. In the third case, neither the Alpha Frog nor either of the Beta Frogs can leap anywhere. In the fourth case, if the first Beta Frog leaps one lilypad to the left, and then the second Beta Frog also leaps one lilypad to the left, then the Alpha Frog can leap over both of them to reach the rightmost lilypad.# Mr. X Theres nothing more important than x, laughs Mr. X as he explains a Boolean expression involving a variable x to you and your classmates. He cant go minutes teaching Boolean algebra without making at least one such joke. In Mr. Xs class, youve been learning about singlevariable Boolean expressions, which are made up of the variable x and its negation, Boolean constants TrueFalse, and binary Boolean operators. A valid expression is a string in one of the following two forms A single term, which is one of the following four characters x The variable x X The negation of the variable x The constant False The constant True A binary operator joining two valid expressions in the format expressionoperatorexpression, with the operator being one of the following three characters The OR operator evaluating to True when at least one of its operands is True The AND operator evaluating to True when both of its operands are True The XOR operator evaluating to True when exactly one of its operands is True For example, the following expressions are valid x Xx While the following expressions are invalid x Xx An upcoming test will feature a valid expression E in the above format, which must be evaluated for a certain value of x. However, youve been getting tired of Mr. X and his lame jokes about the importance of x, so youre planning on hacking into his test files and changing the expression so as to make x irrelevant In particular, youd like to modify as few characters as possible in E such that it ends up still being a valid expression, but such that its overall value doesnt depend on the value of the variable x. You may only change characters inplace into different characters mdash you may not insert or delete characters. For example, the expression Xx evaluates to True if x is False, and False if x is True. If it were to be changed into X by modifying its nd, rd, th, th, th, and th characters, then it would evaluate to False regardless of xs value. Though, its also possible to make its value independent of x by modifying fewer than of its characters. Given an expression E, whats the minimum number of characters which must be modified Its possible that no characters may need to be modified at all. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of tests. For each test, there is a line containing the expression E. Output For the ith test, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the minimum number of characters to modify in E such that the result is a valid expression whose value doesnt depend on the value of x. Constraints le T le le E le Explanation of Sample The first expression can, for example, be changed to and would then always evaluate to True. The second expression can be left unchanged as it always evaluates to False. The third expression can be left unchanged as it always evaluates to True. The fourth expression can, for example, be changed to XXx and would then always evaluate to True.# Trees as a Service Carlos is hoping to strike it rich with his new consulting firm, Carlos Structures Industries CSI. With a solid mission statement and a cando attitude, hes sure to succeed in the wide world of bespoke data structures. Our vision is to synergistically leverage our core competencies to deliver competitive market solutions that assertively meet our clients needs. His first client, the wellknown translation firm Treehouse, is looking to update their logo. Treehouse wants their logo to be a rooted tree with N nodes numbered through N. They have a rough idea of what the tree should look like, but they want Carlos to finish fleshing it out. In particular, they have M requirements, the ith of which states that the lowest common ancestor of nodes Xi and Yi must be node Zi. Carloss goal is to find any valid tree consistent with all of these requirements if possible, or to determine that no such tree exists. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of tree designs. For each design, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then M lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Xi, Yi, and Zi. Output For the ith design, print a line containing Case i followed by a description of a valid rooted tree if possible, or the string Impossible if no valid tree exists. A tree description is N spaceseparated integers, the jth of which is node js parent or if node j is the root. Constraints le T le le N le le M le le Xi, Yi, Zi le N Xi ne Yi Explanation of Sample In the first case, the LCA of nodes and in the chosen tree is , as required. This is the only valid output for this case. In the third case, would also be accepted, while no other outputs would be. In the fifth and sixth cases, multiple possible outputs would be accepted.# Class Treasurer Its time for your school class to elect its class officers for the year. These officers will have the honour of representing the class and will hold various responsibilities. The position of class treasurer is particularly appealing to some of the more organized and mathematicallyinclined students, especially two rivals, Amy and Betty. Theyve both been running strong campaigns, to the point that no other feasible candidates remain. A democratic vote to elect the class treasurer is about to take place Each of the N students in the class will cast one vote, for either Amy or Betty. The students have IDs numbered from to N, and student i is currently planning on voting for either Amy if Vi A or Betty if Vi B. Your teacher, Mr. X, has some novel ideas about how elections should work. Perhaps in an effort to teach your class a statistics lesson, he will organize the election as follows. Hell consider the set of all NN possible nonempty contiguous sets of student IDs, and will select one at random. Each set will have an equal chance of being selected. Hell refer to this as the representative set of students. He will also announce a threshold of victory, K. Hell then tally up the number of votes for Amy and Betty amongst those students mdash let these vote counts be a and b respectively. If a gt b K, then Amy will win. If b gt a K, then Betty will win. Otherwise, if a b le K, then it will be a draw neither candidate will win, and the class will be left without a treasurer. Amy has grown concerned about how the election will turn out, so shes enlisted your help in potentially swaying some of your classmates opinions. Shes tasked you with ensuring that, no matter which representative set gets chosen, Betty cannot possibly win in other words, either Amy will win or neither candidate will win. To do so, you may pay or more students to change their vote from their current candidate to the other one. Student i requires i dollars to be influenced in this fashion. You must finish paying students off before you know what the representative set will be. Whats the minimum possible cost required to guarantee that Betty cannot possibly win and become the class treasurer As this cost may be large, output it modulo ,. Note that you must minimize the actual cost, rather than minimizing the resulting value of the cost after its taken modulo ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of elections. For each election, there are two lines. The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N and K. The second line contains the N characters V through VN. Output For the ith election, print a line containing Case i followed by integer, the minimum possible cost in dollars required to guarantee that Betty cannot become the class treasurer, modulo ,. Constraints le T le le N le , le K le N Explanation of Sample In the first case, if you do nothing, then Betty may win if the representative set either consists of only student or only student . You should pay students and to each vote for Amy instead of Betty, for a cost of . Amy will then be guaranteed to win for any choice of representative set. In the second case, you dont need to pay any students to change their minds mdash either Amy will win, or it will be a draw. In the third case, you should pay student to change their vote to Amy.# Connect the Dots There are N dots on a D grid, the ith of which is a point at coordinates Xi, Yi. All coordinates are positive integers, and all N dots positions are distinct. Youd like to draw N line segments, each of which is either horizontal or vertical, to connect each of the dots to one of the grids axes. In particular, for each dot i, youll draw either a horizontal line segment connecting it to the yaxis with endpoints , Yi and Xi, Yi, or a vertical line segment connecting it to the xaxis with endpoints Xi, and Xi, Yi. Each line segment only counts as connecting the single dot located at its endpoint, even if it happens to pass through other dots along the way. No horizontal line segment is allowed to intersect with any vertical line segment. Line segments are not considered to intersect at either of their endpoints mdash for example, its permitted for a horizontal line segment to pass through the endpoint of a vertical one, or vice versa. Horizontal line segments are allowed to overlap with other horizontal ones, as are vertical line segments with other vertical ones. The cost of drawing a nonempty set of horizontal line segments is equal to the length of the longest one in dollars, while the cost of drawing no horizontal line segments is . The cost of drawing a set of vertical line segments is similarly equal to the length of the longest one if any, and the total cost of drawing all N line segments is equal to the cost of drawing the set of horizontal ones plus the cost of drawing the set of vertical ones. You can choose to draw at most H horizontal line segments, and at most V vertical ones. Whats the minimum total cost required to connect all N dots to the grids axes, without using too many of either type of line segment or causing any horizontal line segments to intersect with vertical ones, if that can be done at all In order to reduce the size of the input, the dots coordinates will not all be provided explicitly. Instead, youll be given X, X, Y, Y, as well as constants Ax, Bx, Cx, Dx, Ay, By, Cy, and Dy, and you must then compute X.N and Y.N as follows bearing in mind that intermediate values may not fit within bit integers Xi Ax Xi Bx Xi Cx modulo Dx , for i .N Yi Ay Yi By Yi Cy modulo Dy , for i .N Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of grids. For each room, there are three lines. The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N, H, and V. The second line contains the spaceseparated integers X, X, Ax, Bx, Cx, and Dx. The third line contains the spaceseparated integers Y, Y, Ay, By, Cy, and Dy. Output For the ith grid, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum total cost in dollars required to validly connect all N dots to the grids axes, or if its impossible to do so. Constraints le T le le N le , le H, V le N le Ax, Bx, Cx Ay, By, Cy le , le Dx, Dy le , le Xi le Dx le Yi le Dy In the first case, the dots are at coordinates , and , . The cheapest option is to connect both dots using vertical line segments, having lengths and and altogether costing to draw. The lack of horizontal line segments costs an additional , bringing the total to . The second case is the same as the first, except that at most one vertical line may be drawn. The cheapest valid option is now to connect the second dot using a horizontal line segment of length while still connecting the first dot using a vertical one of length . These two line segments do not intersect, and cost a total of to draw. In the third case, not all of the dots can be connected. In the fourth case, the dots are at coordinates , , , and , . You can connect the first dot using a horizontal line segment of length , and the other dots with vertical ones of lengths at most , for a total cost of . Note that this causes two vertical line segments to overlap the ones connecting the third and fourth points. In the fifth case, the dots are at coordinates , , , , , , , , , and , .# Graphs as a Service With a successful commission under his belt, Carlos has really made a splash with his consulting firm, Carlos Structures Industries. His next customer is Texas Instruments, the wellknown manufacturer of graphing calculators. In todays competitive environment, you need an edge. I can make sure that your newest graphing calculator is chockfull of the best modern graphs. Carloss pitch seems to have worked as Texas Instruments has ordered an undirected, weighted graph. Their RD department has come up with a list of requirements that will ensure the graph is a hit with Gen Z schoolchildren. To start with, the graph must have N nodes numbered to N. It must have no selfloops and at most one edge connecting each unordered pair of nodes. The weight of each edge must be an integer between and , inclusive. The graph does not need to be connected. The graph must also satisfy M customer requirements, the ith of which states that the shortest distance between two different nodes Xi and Yi must be equal to Zi. No two requirements pertain to the same unordered pair of nodes. Carloss goal is to find any valid graph consistent with all of these requirements if possible, or to determine that no such graph exists. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of graphs that Texas Instruments has commissioned. For each graph, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Xi, Yi, and Zi. Output For the ith graph, print a line containing Case i followed by either an integer E and then a description of a valid graph if possible, or the string Impossible if no valid graph exists. A graph description contains E lines, where E is the number of edges in your graph. The ith line contains the spaceseparated integers Ai, Bi, and Wi indicating that there is an edge between nodes Ai and Bi with weight Wi. Please keep in mind that your graph must satisfy all of the requirements stated above both the fundamental requirements dictated by Texas Instruments, and the M customer ones. Constraints le T le le N le le M le , le Xi, Yi le N Xi ne Yi le Zi le , Explanation of Sample In the graph described by the first sample cases sample output, the shortest distance between nodes and is along the path , as required. Multiple other outputs would also be accepted for this case. Multiple other outputs would also be accepted for the third and fourth cases. # Ladders and Snakes N ladders have been set up in a room, which can be represented as a D plane when viewed from the side. The rooms floor is the horizontal line with ycoordinate , and its ceiling is the horizontal line with ycoordinate H. The ith ladder is a vertical line segment between integral coordinates Xi, Ai and Xi, Bi, located within the inclusive bounds of the room such that le Ai lt Bi le H. Note that each ladder may be touching the floor andor ceiling, or may be floating in midair dont question it. No two ladders overlap with one another even at their endpoints. Sneider the Snake has taken an interest in this room, and may add or more snakes to it. The jth snake will be a vertical line segment between some coordinates xj, aj and xj, bj, located strictly inside the bounds of the room with xj being any nonnegative real number, and aj and bj being integers such that lt aj le bj lt H. A snake may be a length line segment, with its endpoints being equal, in which case it occupies only a single point on the plane. No snake may overlap with any other snake, nor with any ladder even at an endpoint. Flynn the Flying Squirrel finds herself on the floor at coordinates , and wants to reach coordinates , H on the ceiling. At any point, she may gracefully hover horizontally left or right as long as she doesnt overlap with any snake including exactly at one of its endpoints. She may also move vertically up or down as long as shes overlapping with a ladder including exactly at one of its endpoints. Flynn always moves continuously around the plane she does not skip from one integral coordinate to the next. Sneider the Snake doesnt want Flynn to reach her destination, just because he likes being mean. Determine the minimum possible sum of lengths of snakes which Sneider must place such that Flynn will be unable to reach coordinates , H from her initial position , if possible. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of rooms. For each room, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and H. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Xi, Ai, and Bi. Output For the ith room, print a line containing Case i followed by integer, either the minimum total length of snakes required, or if Sneider cannot prevent Flynn from reaching coordinates , H. Constraints le T le le N le le H le , le Xi le , le Ai lt Bi le H le xj lt aj le bj lt H Explanation of Sample In the first case, one optimal way for Sneider to prevent Flynn from reaching coordinates , involves placing a length snake with endpoints ., and ., as illustrated below with ladders indicated in brown and the snake indicated in green In the second case, Flynn already cant reach coordinates , even if Sneider doesnt place any snakes. In the third case, Flynn cannot be prevented from reaching coordinates , . In the fourth case, one optimal way for Sneider to prevent Flynn from reaching coordinates , involves placing a length snake with endpoints , and , two length snakes at coordinates , and , and a length snake with endpoints , and , . The sum of these snakes lengths is .# Bitstrings as a Service Carlos knows that the key to sustained customer loyalty is early customer acquisition and constant reengagement. With that in mind, hes setting his sights on sugary cereals. Kids love it, and they keep coming back for more. He has a proposal for Post, the wellknown manufacturer of AlphaBits For years these bits have been made of letters, but kids today are tired of letters for breakfast. Let me show you something truly revolutionary bits made of numbers The executives at Post would like to assess the feasibility of producing numeric bits. In particular, they want to see if Carlos can create a string of bits, B, of length N. In this string, each character is either or . Carlos has been given a list of M requirements. The ith requirement states that the substring BXi.Yi must be a palindrome. The new cereal surely wont succeed without appealing to childrens acute sense of symmetry. Furthermore, the number of zeroes and ones in B must be as close as possible. In other words, if Cb is the number of occurrences of bit b in B, then the absolute difference C C must be minimized. The margins on cereal are razor thin, and as everybody knows, bits are produced in pairs, so its wasteful to use more of one sort than the other. Help Carlos build any bitstring B consistent with all of these requirements and with minimal difference between the number of zeroes and ones. Its guaranteed that such a bitstring exists for every given set of requirements. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of bitstrings that Post has commissioned. For each bitstring, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi. Output For the ith commission, print a line containing Case i followed by a valid bitstring B. Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , le Xi le Yi le N Explanation of Sample In the first case, the minimum absolute difference between the number of zeroes and ones is with of each. other outputs would also be accepted for this case , , and . For each of the remaining sample cases, various other outputs would similarly be accepted. In the second case, the minimum achievable difference is . In the third case, the minimum achievable difference is . In the fourth case, the minimum achievable difference is . In the fifth case, the minimum achievable difference is . In the sixth case, the minimum achievable difference is .# Grading Due to a convenient recent teaching vacancy, Laz Y. has suddenly landed a job as a schoolteacher. Known to his students as Mr. Y, hes prepared to provide a comprehensive, fairlyevaluated educational experience mdash as long as it doesnt take too much effort. Mr. Ys first order of business in his new role will be grading recent exams from two different subjects art and biology. He has been handed S stacks of H exam papers each. The ith paper from the top in the jth stack is either from the art exam if Pi,j A, or otherwise from the biology exam if Pi,j B. Mr. Y will go about the grading process as follows At each point in time, hell select a stack which still contains at least one exam paper, and remove its topmost paper. Hell then either grade that paper, or accidentally lose it and assign its owner a random grade instead. Either way, once hes done with that paper, hell repeat the process of selecting a new paper until all of the stacks are empty and all HS papers have been dealt with. There are few things that Mr. Y hates as much as context switching. For example, its very troublesome to jump from grading an art exam to a biology one Or from relaxing to doing any work at all. Each time Mr. Y begins a grading a paper, he must make a context switch if this is either the first paper hes choosing to grade, or if its subject is different than that of the previous paper that he graded. Note that this entirely excludes any lost papers. Mr. Y is no fool mdash he realizes that his evaluations would be too suspiciously inaccurate if he were to simply lose all HS papers. Even losing a smaller number of them may prove too suspicious. Therefore, hell imagine K different theoretical scenarios, such that in the ith one, he will allow himself to lose at most Li papers throughout the grading process with L.K all being distinct. Independently for each scenario, hed like to determine the minimum number of context switches he would need to make throughout the process. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of days Mr. Y spends grading exams. For each day, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers H, S, and K. Then, H lines follow, the ith of which contains the lengthS string Pi,.S. Then, a final line follows containing the K spaceseparated integers L through LK. Output For the ith day, print a line containing Case i followed by K spaceseparated integers, the jth of which is the minimum number of context switches which Mr. Y would need to make if he were to grade the papers while losing at most Lj of them. Constraints le T le le H, S le le K le H S le Li le H S Explanation of Sample In the first case, if Mr. Y may only lose one paper, the best he can do is make two context switches, for example by grading the B papers from the first and third stacks, then losing the B paper from the fifth stack, and then grading the A papers from the second and fourth stacks. On the other hand, the freedom to lose two papers would allow him to make only one context switch, for example by losing the A papers from the second and fourth stacks and then grading the B papers from the first, third, and fifth stacks. In the second case, if Mr. Y may lose one paper, one optimal strategy requiring just two context switches is as follows Grade the B paper from the top of stack first context switch. Lose the A paper from the top of stack . Grade the B paper from the top of stack . Grade the A paper from the top of stack second context switch. Grade the A paper from the top of stack . Grade the A paper from the top of stack . # On the Run The worlds funniest schoolteacher has found himself in some trouble. Or, should we say, the worlds funniest exschoolteacher. On the basis of a false accusation regarding too many puns in his exam problems, Mr. X has not only been fired, but is now on the run from the Humane Association for Humour Administration HAHA. Theyve tracked Mr. X down to a yard in Scotland, which may be represented as a grid with N rows numbered to N and M columns numbered to M. Mr. X is initially in row A and column B. There are also K le K le HAHA agents hot on his trail, the ith of whom is initially in row Ri and column Ci. All K individuals are in distinct cells. The chase will then commence in an organized fashion as follows Each of the K HAHA agents in turn will move up, down, left, or right to an adjacent unoccupied cell without leaving the yard. The agents may choose to move in any order, but each of them must move exactly once, and multiple of them may not move simultaneously. Its guaranteed that all of the agents will always be able to move in some order for any possible state of the yard. Mr. X will then attempt to similarly move to an adjacent unoccupied cell. If hes unable to move due to there being no unoccupied cells adjacent to him, hell surrender quietly instead. Otherwise, the process will repeat from Step . An unoccupied cell is one which currently contains neither Mr. X nor an agent. Mr. X is hoping that, if he can avoid ever being forced to surrender, the HAHA agents may eventually leave him alone, giving him the opportunity to slip away and work on regaining his teaching position. However, the outcome of this chase seems difficult to call. Assuming that the agents work together optimally in an attempt to force Mr. X to surrender, while Mr. X optimally chooses moves to avoid surrendering indefinitely, determine whether or not he will eventually be forced to surrender. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of times that Mr. X is chased by HAHA agents. For each chase, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, M, and K. Then there is a line containing the spaceseparated integers A, and B. Then, K lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ri and Ci. Output For the ith chase, print a line containing Case i followed by one character, either Y if Mr. X will eventually be forced to surrender, or N otherwise. Constraints le T le le N, M le le K le le A, Ri le N le B, Ci le M Explanation of Sample In the first case, no matter how much time goes by and what moves the HAHA agent chooses to make, Mr. X can always avoid needing to surrender. In the second case, if the first HAHA agent initially moves to cell , and the second agent moves to cell , then Mr. X will immediately be forced to surrender.# Seafood Percy is a harlequin tuskfish who lives on a stretch of the sea floor, which may be represented as a number line. There are N objects resting on the sand beneath the waves, the ith of which is at a positive integral position Pi, is either a clam if Oi C or otherwise a rock if Oi R, and in either case has a hardness of Hi. No two objects are at the same position, and at least one of the objects is a clam. Percy initially finds himself at position , and can then swim in either direction along the number line at a rate of unit per second. Whenever he occupies the same position as a clam, he may pick it up and begin carrying it around in his mouth. Picking up a clam requires no additional time, and Percy is talented enough to carry any number of clams at once. Percy would like to devour the delicious interior of each clam, but cant get to it without first somehow breaking open its hard shell. Fortunately, Percy is clever and persistent enough to have a solution to this problem. Whenever he occupies the same position as a rock, he may take each clam that hes currently carrying that has a strictly smaller hardness than that of the rock, knock the clam against the rock to break open its shell, and eat the meal packaged within This process requires no additional time per clam. Whats the minimum amount of time required for Percy to swim around and eat all of the clams by picking each one up and then knocking it against a harder rock than itself, if at all possible In order to reduce the size of the input, the objects positions and hardnesses will not all be provided explicitly. Instead, youll be given P, P, H, H, as well as the constants Ap, Bp, Cp, Dp, Ah, Bh, Ch, and Dh, and must then compute P.N and H.N as follows bearing in mind that intermediate values may not fit within bit integers Pi Ap Pi Bp Pi Cp modulo Dp , for i to N. Hi Ah Hi Bh Hi Ch modulo Dh , for i to N. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of days Percy goes hunting for clams. For each day, there are four lines. The first line contains the integer N. The second line contains the spaceseparated integers P, P, Ap, Bp, Cp, and Dp. The third line contains the spaceseparated integers H, H, Ah, Bh, Ch, and Dh. The fourth line contains the lengthN string O.N. Output For the ith day, print a line containing Case i followed by one integer, either the minimum number of seconds required for Percy to break open and eat all of the clams, or if he cannot do so. Constraints le T le le N le , le Ap, Bp, Cp, Ah, Bh, Ch le , le Dp, Dh le , le Pi le Dp le Hi le Dh Explanation of Sample In the first case, P , and H , . Percy should swim to position , pick up the clam with hardness , swim onwards to position , and break open the clam on the rock with hardness . In the second case, P , and H , . Percy should now swim to position to pick up the clam, and then back to position to break it open. In the third case, P , and H , . Once Percy picks up the clam, no rock harder than it exists on the sea floor, meaning that he can never break it open. In the fourth case, P , , and H , , . In the fifth case, P , , , , , , , , , , and H , , , , , , , , , , .# Chain of Command At last, Mr. X has managed to return to the school at which he formerly taught, with the intention of confronting his suspicious successor, Mr. Y. However, it appears that Mr. Y has fortified his position mdash he has brainwashed all of his students into believing that hes the worlds best teacher through the timeless ploy of replacing classes with extra recesses. Theres no way that Mr. Y can be thrown out of the school without first compromising his students support There are N students in Mr. Ys class, with IDs from to N. In an attempt to maximize security, Mr. Y has arranged them into a hierarchical structure, with each student i either reporting to a commanding student Ci, or not reporting to any other student indicated by Ci . Theres exactly one student i for whom Ci , who is the class leader. A chain of command is a sequence of one or more students going up the hierarchical structure starting from some student i and ending somewhere between i and the class leader inclusive i rarr Ci rarr CCi rarr etc. Its guaranteed that, for each student i, there exists a chain of command beginning at them and ending at the class leader. Initially, all N students are under Mr. Ys control. However, Mr. X is about to perform some bribery of his own. One by one, in order from to N, Mr. X will bribe each student with healthy snacks. After the first b bribes, students .b will be under Mr. Xs control instead of Mr. Ys. After each of the N bribes, Mr. X would like to evaluate the vulnerability of Mr. Ys class to a potential takeover. To do so, hell determine N hypothetical values for each student i, hell compute the maximum length that a controlled chain beginning with student i could possibly have if or more promotions were to first take place or if no such chain could exist. A controlled chain is a chain of command consisting exclusively of students under Mr. Xs control. A promotion is a modification to the class structure in which Mr. X selects a certain student j with a commanding student c Cj such that c ne and c ne i, expels student c removing them from the class entirely, and brings j up to occupy cs former place setting Cj to Cc, and for each other student k such that Ck c, now setting Ck to j. Note that each of these hypothetical values should be considered independently of the others Mr. X will never actually perform any promotions and permanently alter the class structure. In order to reduce the size of the output, these N values should be aggregated into a single integer as follows Letting Sb be the sum of the N students maximum controlled chain lengths after the first b students have been bribed, output S S . SN modulo ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of times Mr. X needs to wrest control from Mr. Y. For each time, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the integer Ci. Output For the ith time, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the product of all N sums of maximum controlled chain lengths, modulo ,. Constraints le T le le N le , le Ci le N Explanation of Sample In the first case, after the first student has been bribed, a length controlled chain can begin at student , while no controlled chain can begin at student . Once the second student has also been bribed, a length controlled chain can still begin at student , while a length controlled chain may now begin at student rarr . This results in a total answer of modulo ,. In the second case, after the first two students have been bribed, a length controlled chain can begin at student rarr if student gets promoted replacing student . The total answer comes out to modulo ,. In the third case, after the first two students have been bribed, a length controlled chain may begin at student rarr if student gets promoted replacing student , and a length controlled chain can similarly begin at student rarr if student gets promoted replacing student . The total answer comes out to modulo ,. In the fourth case, the total answer is modulo ,. In the fifth case, the total answer is modulo ,.# Integers as a Service Looking for a new direction for his company, Carlos wants to break into the most exciting tech field digital rights management DRM. In the world of DRM, megacorporations wage perpetual war against a vast sea of epirates, modernday Robin Hoods of ambiguous moral character. One of the biggest players in this struggle is Sony, the wellknown copyrighter of numbers. Considering the speed with which Sony puts out new products, its no wonder theyre having trouble coming up with enough secret encryption keys to protect all of their intellectual property. Enter Carlos. Gone are the days of paying overpriced number theory PhDs to craft primes by hand. I can make you a system that will generate all the numbers you need, to your exact specifications. Sony wants to see a demonstration of Carloss system before forking over millions of dollars in consultancy fees. They have some new products in development, each of which requires a secret key, X. For each key, Sony has a list of N requirements. The ith requirement has an operator character Oi, an integer value Vi, and an integer result Ri. When Oi is G, the ith requirement states that the greatest common divisor of X and Vi must be Ri. That is, GCDX, Vi Ri. When Oi is L, the ith requirement states that the least common multiple of X and Vi must be Ri. That is, LCMX, Vi Ri. There is also a global requirement that all of Sonys secret keys must be positive integers no larger than ,. Help Carlos build any positive integer X consistent with all of these requirements, or determine that no such integer exists. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of secret keys that Sony wants Carlos to generate. For each number, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the character Oi, and the integers Vi and Ri, all separated by spaces. Output For the ith secret key, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer your chosen value of X, or if no valid integer X exists. Constraints le T le le N le , Oi isin G, L le Vi, Ri le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, GCD, meaning that X satisfies the one and only requirement. Note that, for this case and potentially other cases below, various other outputs will also be accepted. In the second case, there exists no valid integer X such that le X le , and LCMX, . In the third case, GCD, LCM, and GCD, meaning that X is a valid choice. # Light Show Melody is visiting the renowned NotreDame Basilica church in Montral, Canada. Aside from appreciating its beautiful architecture, shes there to see a spectacular light show scheduled to be held within Representing the crosssectional view of the church as a D plane, it has a mirrorcovered ceiling made up of two degree line segments, the first running from , to H, H and the second running from H, H to H, . N lasers have been set up on the floor, pointing upwards, with the ith one at integral coordinates Xi, emitting a coloured beam of either red if Ci or blue if Ci light. All N lasers are at distinct positions, and theres no laser directly under the center of the ceiling at xcoordinate H. If uninterrupted, each lasers beam travels vertically upwards until it hits a point on the ceiling, at which point it bounces to travel horizontally until it hits another point on the ceiling, at which point it bounces to travel vertically downwards and eventually hits another point on the floor. No laser has been set up such that its beam can possibly end up directly hitting another laser at the end of its path. In other words, if theres a laser at coordinates x, theres guaranteed to be no laser at coordinates H x, . For example, if H and theres a single red laser at coordinates , the church would look as follows Melody thinks it looks pretty when laser beams interact with one another, but not when red and blue beams clash, so shes going to take matters into her own hands to optimize the shows appearance. She will use drones to suspend or more blockers in the air within the church, each occupying a single point possibly with nonintegral coordinates strictly above the xaxis and strictly underneath the ceiling. Each laser beam stops traveling as soon as it hits a blocker. Let Ii, j be true if lasers i and j intersect in other words, if there exists at least one point which both of their beams pass through. If two laser beams hit the same blocker, they are not considered to intersect at that blockers coordinates. The quality Q of a light show, in Melodys eyes, is the number of unordered pairs of laser beams i, j for which Ii, j is true and Ci Cj. However, if there is any intersecting pair of differentlycoloured laser beams i.e. there exists some pair of beams i, j for which Ii, j is true and Ci ne Cj, then the quality of the light show is instead . Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of light shows that Melody watches. For each show, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers H and N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Xi and Ci. Output For the ith show, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer Q, the maximum possible quality of the light show. Constraints le T le le H le , le N le , le Xi le H Xi ne H le Ci le Explanation of Sample In the first case, if no blockers are placed, all three unordered pairs of red lasers will intersect with one another for a quality of In the second case, if Melody were to place no blockers, there would be two samecolour laser beam intersections one involving the red lasers and another involving the blue ones, but there would also be at least one differentcolour laser beam intersection, so this is not ideal as the quality is If she instead places one blocker at coordinates ., blocking the first laser, and another at , blocking both both the second and fourth lasers, then one samecolour laser beam intersection would be achieved between the second and third lasers at coordinates , for a quality of # Renovations A family of four moles lives in an underground burrow. Each of them has an important role to play Daddy Mole is in charge of renovating the burrow. Mommy Mole fixes up Daddy Moles inevitable mistakes. And Brother Mole and Sister Mole mostly lie around playing video games. Their burrow consists of N little underground rooms, numbered from to N. Room is connected to the surface, and for each other room i such that le i le N, the room initially above room i is room Pi, meaning that theres a tunnel leading downwards from room Pi to room i, which may be traversed in either direction. Its guaranteed that its possible to reach each room from room by travelling through a sequence of tunnels. Daddy Mole will renovate the burrow K times in a row. For each renovation in turn, hell independently randomly select a room i aside from room such that le i le N, with each such room having an equal N probability of being chosen each time. Hell then improve the burrows architectural design by simply caving in the tunnel connecting node i and the room currently above it, causing that tunnel to no longer exist. Mommy Mole will then immediately salvage the situation by creating a new tunnel leading downwards from room to room i such that the room above i will now be room . This may result in Mommy Mole recreating exactly the same tunnel that Daddy Mole had just caved in. Note that, in the resulting burrow, each room will always once again be reachable from room . After these K random renovations have been completed, Brother Mole who hangs out in room A will go visit Sister Mole in her room room B to show off his latest video game high score. Hell travel along the unique sequence of tunnels which will get him there without passing through any rooms multiple times, at a speed of tunnel per minute. Whats the expected amount of time this will take him Let this expected time in minutes be represented as a quotient of integers pq in lowest terms. Output the value of this quotient modulo , mdash in other words, output the unique integer x such that le x lt , and p xq modulo ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of burrows. For each burrow, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, K, A, and B. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the integer Pi starting with P. Output For the ith burrow, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the expected number of minutes required for Brother Mole to travel from room A to room B after K renovations, expressed as a quotient of integers modulo ,. Constraints le T le le N le , le K le , le A, B, Pi le N A ne B Explanation of Sample In the first case, if Daddy Mole chooses room for his single renovation caving in the tunnel between rooms and , then Mommy Mole will dig a tunnel between rooms and , and Brother Mole will then need minutes to travel from room to room passing through room along the way. Otherwise, if Daddy Mole chooses node , then Mommy Mole will restore the burrow to its original state, and Brother Mole will be able to reach room directly in minute. These two possibilities are equally likely, resulting in an expected time of modulo , minutes. In the second case, no matter which room Daddy Mole chooses for each renovation, Mommy Mole will recreate the tunnel that he caves in, resulting in Brother Moles trip taking minutes after any number of renovations.# Cold Storage Fred works the night shift in a refrigerator storage warehouse. Its not very exciting work, but Fred has ways to pass the time when nobodys around. For example, lifting fridges turns out to be an amazing bodybuilding method The warehouse consists of N sections in a row, numbered from to N. In each section i, there are initially Fi fridges, all arranged in a single stack. The sections are intended to be separate from one another, and only accessible from the outside. To that end, each pair of adjacent sections are separated by a wall, for a total of N walls. However, these walls dont stretch all the way to the ceiling, and arent necessarily all of the same height. The wall between sections i and i has a height of Hi fridgeheights Fred has come to measure everything relative to fridge dimensions. Freds favourite pastime involves climbing over these walls to get between the warehouses sections Fred will begin by entering the warehouse in some section, carrying in some number of new fridges from the outside yes, hes become strong enough to carry multiple fridges in his arms at once. When hes currently in a certain section s and is carrying f fridges, he may perform any of the following actions Pick up a fridge from section ss stack of fridges, if its nonempty. This decreases the number of fridges in that stack by , and increases f by . Add a fridge that hes carrying onto section ss stack of fridges, if hes carrying at least one fridge. This decreases f by , and increases the number of fridges in that stack by . Climb onto section ss stack of fridges and jump over a wall into an adjacent section, if the number of fridges in that stack is at least as large as the height of that wall in fridgeheights. This decreases or increases s by . Freds goal is to visit all N sections at least once each. He just needs to decide which section he should initially enter and how many additional fridges he should bring from the outside. He has M such possible starting situations in mind, the ith of which involves him beginning in section Xi while carrying Yi fridges. For each hypothetical starting situation, please help Fred determine whether or not he will be able to visit all N sections Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of warehouses Fred works at. For each warehouse, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then follows a line with the N spaceseparated integers F through FN. Then follows a line with the N spaceseparated integers H through HN. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi. Output For the ith warehouse, print a line containing Case i followed by a string of M characters, the ith of which is Y if Fred can visit all N sections from the ith starting situation, or N otherwise. Constraints le T le le N le , le M le , le Fi le , le Hi le , le Xi le N le Yi le , The sum of N across all T test cases is no greater than ,. The sum of M across all T test cases is no greater than ,. Explanation of Sample In the first case, the warehouse is arranged as follows If Fred begins in section holding fridges, he cant climb over the wall to visit section , whereas if hes holding fridge, he can place it in section and then climb over. On the other hand, if he begins in section , he can climb over the wall to visit section using the existing fridge, regardless of whether hes holding any himself. In the second case, consider the first starting situation, in which Fred begins in section holding fridges He could begin by placing of his fridges in section , and using them to climb over the wall into section while still holding fridge He could then place his remaining fridge in section , climb back to section , pick up a fridge there, and climb over to section while holding that fridge Finally, he could place his final fridge in section and climb over to section # Khajiit The faroff land of Tamriel is brimming with opportunity Opportunity for adventure, politics, romance. and, perhaps most importantly of all, commerce. A group of Khajiit merchants, traditionally known for roaming the countryside selling their wares, have recently set up permanent bazaars in a number of towns. Having gotten their catlike paws on a large supply of raw amber and bronze, theyre prepared to strategically work together to maximize their profits selling it One bazaar has been set up in each of NM towns. The towns are numbered from to NM, inclusive, and are connected by roads in a hubandspokes arrangement, with town in the center and N lines of M towns each arranged around it. The ith such line consists of towns Mi to Mi, inclusive, connected together in order by M roads with one between towns Mi and Mi, another between towns Mi and Mi, and so on. For each line i, there is furthermore a road connecting its first town Mi to town . Note that each of the NM roads may be travelled in either direction, and that each town may be reached from each other town by following a sequence of roads. For example, if N and M, the arrangement of towns and roads would look as follows Initially, the bazaar in each town i is stocked with either amber if Xi A or bronze if Xi B. However, in order to satisfy demand, it should end up stocked with a potentially different ware, either amber if Yi A or bronze if Yi B. Its guaranteed that the number of bazaars initially stocked with amber is equal to the number of bazaars which should end up stocked with amber consequently, the same holds true for bronze. In order to accomplish their goal, the Khajiit merchants may repeatedly select a pair of towns which are directly connected by a road, and swap their bazaars wares. Please help them determine the minimum number of such swaps required for all NM bazaars to end up stocked with the required wares This is guaranteed to be possible for every possible valid input. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of Khajiit groups. For each group, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then follows a line with the lengthN M string X, the characters X through XNM. Then follows a line with the lengthN M string Y, the characters Y through YNM. Output For the ith group, print a line containing Case i followed by one integer, the minimum number of swaps required to stock all of the bazaars with the required wares. Constraints le T le le N, M le , le N M le , The sum of N M across all T test cases is no greater than ,. Explanation of Sample In the first case, no swaps are required. In the second case, bazaars and should swap their goods. In the third case, the bazaars are initially set up as follows with ones carrying amber marked in yellow, and ones carrying bronze marked in orange The following sequence of swaps could then be performed to arrive at the required configuration # Little Boat on the Sea Recently, Melody built a little boat, as cute as it could be. And she put a number of animals, twobytwo, on her little boat on the sea Melodys boat features N rooms, numbered from to N. The contents of the ith room are described by the string Ai. If Ai , then the room is empty, while otherwise the room contains an animal of species Ai where Ai is a casesensitive alphanumeric string made up of lowercase letters a.z, uppercase letters A.Z, and digits . There are at most two animals of any given species on the boat. There are N corridors in the boat, the ith of which allows Melody and the animals to travel in either direction between rooms Xi and Yi. Each room is reachable from each other room by following a sequence of corridors. Its time for Melodys daily walk through her boat Shed like to choose one room to start in and a different room to end in, and walk from the former to the latter. Shell take the unique path which allows her to do so without visiting any room multiple times. Along the way, any time she finds herself in a room containing an animal including the starting or ending room, that animal will join her for the remainder of her walk. Normally, both Melody and the animals will keep quiet, which is just how she likes it. However, if two animals of any given species ever end up joining her, theyll promptly make a racket talking to one another, which is no good As such, shell refuse to take a walk which would result in encountering two of any species of animal. For how many of the NN possible ordered pairs of startingending rooms would it be possible for Melody to enjoy a quiet walk from one to the other Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of boats. For each boat, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the string Ai. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi. Output For the ith boat, print a line containing Case i followed by one integer, the number of valid ordered pairs of starting and ending rooms for Melodys walk. Constraints le T le le N le , le Xi, Yi le N le Ai le The sum of N across all T test cases is no greater than ,. Explanation of Sample In the first case, the startingending room pairs , , , and , are valid. On the other hand, the pairs , and , are not. For example, on the way from room to room , a Fox would begin following Melody around in room , and upon being joined by another Fox in room , the two Foxen would begin making strange noises towards one another. In the second case, both possible startingending room pairs , and , are no good, as they would involve encountering two talkative Turtles. In the third case, both possible startingending room pairs will do, as no two animals of any given species can be encountered. # Scoreboard The Hacker Cup Finals have just concluded There were N participants numbered to N, including yourself competing as participant , and M problems numbered to M. Participant i solved problem j if Si,j Y, and otherwise they didnt solve it if Si,j N. Problem is point value is i, and each participants score is the sum of the point values of the problems that they solved. No two participants solved exactly the same set of problems, which also means that all participants have distinct scores. Before the final results get announced, you have an opportunity to rearrange the M columns of the scoreboard S into any permutation of problems to M. For example, if you swap columns and , then everybody who had originally solved problem will now be considered to have solved problem thus earning points for it rather than , and vice versa. Of course, youd like to use this opportunity to your benefit mdash it would be irresponsible to just let it pass by However, it would be too suspicious if you simply made yourself win the whole competition. As such, youd like to cause yourself to end up in nd place, such that you participant have exactly the secondhighest score out of all N participants. Now you just need to determine whether or not this is achievable. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of scoreboards. For each scoreboard, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains a lengthM string, the characters Si, through Si,M. Output For the ith scoreboard, print a line containing Case i followed by one character, either Y if you can end up in nd place, or N otherwise. Constraints le T le le N le le M le The sum of N M across all T test cases is no greater than ,. Explanation of Sample In the first case, theres only one possible permutation of problems . This results in you having a score of and participant having a score of , which puts you in st place rather than nd. In the second case, if you preserve the original permutation of problems, , youll have a score of while participant has a score of , putting you in nd place, as required. The permutation , would have put you in st place instead. In the third case, if you choose the problem permutation , the participants scores will be , , and , respectively. This puts you in nd place, as required. The problem permutation , would have put you in rd place instead. # Strings as a Service Carlos has been working in technology so long that hes starting to feel a bit burnt out. Hoping to rejuvenate himself, Carlos has been seeking out more artistic opportunities. Yamaha, the wellknown creator of musical apparatus, has approached Carlos with a request that might be right up his alley theyd like him to design a brand new instrument. Immediately, Carlos knows what to do. You may have seen Pat Methenys string guitar, but thats nothing compared to what were going to make together. Carlos presents his plan for a ,string guitar, complete with programmatic tuning so that you dont need to turn , knobs by hand. Yamahas market research suggests that these sorts of guitars would be great for playing palindromic chords, chords where the first string plays the same note as the last string, the second string plays the same note as the secondtolast string, and so on. Carlos is quickly tasked with developing default tunings for the strings so that the guitars are ready to play right out of the box. For various integers K, Carlos wants to find a set of at most , strings on which exactly K distinct palindromic chords can be played. The guitars strings are arranged in a line, and each one must be tuned to a note from the set A, B, C, D, E, F, G. A chord is then played by strumming a contiguous subset of or more strings. Two chords are considered to be distinct if there is at least one string that is used in one chord but not the other chords involving the same notes but different strings are considered different. For example, if K , a set of strings could be tuned to the notes C, A, B, B, A, G, E in order from left to right. You can play different palindromic chords by strumming single strings, the chord BB by strumming the rd and th strings, and the chord ABBA by strumming the nd, rd, th, and th strings. This is a total of distinct palindromic chords. Output any nonempty string of valid musical notes, with length at most , representing the tunings of sequential strings. An aspiring musician must be able to play exactly K distinct palindromic chords on these strings. Its guaranteed that there is at least one valid output for each possible valid input. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of tunings that Carlos needs to figure out. For each tuning, there is a single line containing the integer K. Output For the ith tuning, print a line containing Case i followed by a string of up to , characters representing a tuning of strings as described above on which exactly K distinct palindromic chords can be played. Constraints le T le le K le , Explanation of Sample In the first case, ACE is a valid output as it contains exactly palindromes A, C, and E. On the other hand, DAD would not be valid as it contains palindromes. In the second case, GAGA is a valid output as it contains exactly palindromes G, A, G, A, GAG, and AGA. Note that other outputs would also be accepted for each sample case. # Temporal Revision The starship Enterprise, bravely captained by JeanLuc Picard, is on yet another mission to explore strange new worlds, seek out new life and new civilizations, and boldly go where no one has gone before Equipped with a stateoftheart warp drive capable of attaining warp factor and revising the Enterprises spacetime coordinates almost at will even sending the ship back in time, not much can stand in the explorers way. Though, they are low on medical supplies, so they will need to first stock up on neurozine gas for anesthetic purposes. The Enterprise is heading to the Alpha Omicron solar system, which consists of N planets, numbered from to N. It also features M space conduits, the ith of which allows the Enterprise to travel in either direction between two different planets Ai and Bi. No two conduits directly link the same unordered pair of planets, and each planet is reachable from each other planet by following a sequence of conduits. Theres a geyser capable of emitting neurozine located on each planet, though all N geysers are initially inactive. A sequence of K events will then take place, one per hour. The event at hour i is described by integers Ei and Vi, with Ei indicating the events type, which is one of the following Ei The Vith conduit le Vi le M collapses, and can no longer be used from that moment onwards. Each conduit collapses at most once. Ei The geyser on planet Vi le Vi le N activates, and begins emitting neurozine. Each geyser is activated at most once. Ei The geyser on planet Vi le Vi le N deactivates, and no longer emits neurozine from that moment onwards. Each geyser is deactivated at most once, and is guaranteed to not be deactivated before it has been activated. The Enterprise will arrive in the Alpha Omicron system at some planet x and just before some hour y. When the starship is currently at a certain planet and a certain time, Captain Picard may issue any of the following commands to his crew Remain at that planet and wait until any future time. Travel through an uncollapsed space conduit directly from that planet to another one. Thanks to warp technology, this may be done instantly. Collect neurozine from that planets geyser, if its currently active. This may be done instantly. Remain at that planet while travelling backwards to any past time which is at most hours earlier than the Enterprises original arrival time in the solar system in other words, the Enterprise may end up just before hour y , but no earlier. However, this may only be done at most once. The Enterprise retains any neurozine that it had collected before this temporal revision. Picard wants his crew to collect neurozine from as many different geysers as possible theres no additional value in collecting neurozine from any given geyser multiple times, including both before and after travelling back in time. However, Picard hasnt yet decided where and when the Enterprise should arrive in the Alpha Omicron system. He has S such possible starting situations in mind, the ith of which would have the Enterprise arrive at planet Xi just before hour Yi. For each hypothetical starting situation, please help Picard determine the maximum number of different geysers from which the Enterprise could then proceed to collect neurozine Letting ansi be the answer for the ith starting situation, you must output the sum of ans.S in order to minimize the size of the output. Please note that this sum may not fit within a bit integer. The starting situations must be considered one after another. In order to enforce this, rather than being given X.S and Y.S explicitly, you must compute them based on given values X.S and Y.S. For the first starting situation, X X and Y Y, while for each subsequent starting situation i le i le S, Xi Xi xor ansi and Yi Yi xor ansi where xor is the bitwise xor operator, in most programming languages. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of missions. For each mission, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, M, K and S. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Then, K lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ei and Vi. Then, S lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi. Output For the ith mission, print a line containing Case i followed by one integer, the sum of the answers for the S starting situations. Constraints le T le le N le , le M, K, S le , le Ai, Bi le N le Ei le le Xi le N le Yi le K le Xi, Yi le , The sum of N across all T test cases is no greater than ,. The sum of M across all T test cases is no greater than ,. The sum of K across all T test cases is no greater than ,. The sum of S across all T test cases is no greater than ,. Explanation of Sample In the first case, if the Enterprise arrives at planet just before hour , Picard could issue the following sequence of orders to help his crew collect neurozine from both planets geysers Travel through the st space conduit to planet . Wait until after hour . Collect neurozine from planet s nowactive geyser. Travel back in time to just before hour . Travel through the st space conduit to planet . Collected neurozine from planet s active geyser. In the second case, the starting situations and corresponding answers are as follows i Xi Yi ansi For the first starting situation, the Enterprise could remain on planet until its geyser activates at hour , collect its neurozine, travel back in time to just before hour , travel to planet and collect its neurozine, travel to planet and then to planet , and remain there to collect its neurozine after hour . On the other hand, for the second starting situation, neurozine from all geysers cannot be collected. In the third case, the starting situations and corresponding answers are as follows i Xi Yi ansi In the fourth case, the starting situations and corresponding answers are as follows i Xi Yi ansi In the fifth case, the first starting situations and corresponding answers are as follows i Xi Yi ansi # Alchemy Edgar and his younger brother Alfred are alchemists in search of the legendary Philosophers Stone. The Philosophers Stone also known as the Red Stone, the Fifth Element, and the Elixir of Life in liquid form is a powerful alchemical substance rumoured to support the transmutation of silver, gold, and even human lives. Edgar is hoping to use the stone to restore his brothers body to its original form following a terrifying human transmutation accident. It is known that Philosophers Stones break apart into an odd number of shards when theyre used up. After searching far and wide, Edgar has collected N shards of what he believes to be a previouslyused Philosophers Stone, where N is an odd integer. He believes that fusing these shards back together will yield a real stone in its entirety. Leveraging his encyclopedic knowledge of alchemy, Edgar recalls an ancient book with the following ritual for fusing shards . Arrange the N shards in a row, numbered from to N. . Note the colour Ci of each shard i, which is either auburn or black denoted by the characters A and B respectively. . Choose a consecutive sequence of three shards, remove them from the row, and fuse them together into one new shard. The three shards must not all be the same colour, or such an intense concentration of similar energies will cause a dangerous rebound explosion. Instead, there must be two differentlycoloured shards that will neutralize each other, get converted into energy via the Law of Equivalent Exchange, and become infused with the third shard. In other words, assuming no explosion, the resulting shards colour will be equal to the most common colour present amongst the three chosen shards. . Place the resulting shard back into the original gap in the row, with the remaining shards in the same relative order before and after it. . Repeat steps and until only one shard remains. Note that each time steps and are performed, the number of remaining shards decreases by . Therefore, given that the initial number of shards is odd, enough successful repetitions will result in exactly one final shard the Philosophers Stone. Help Edgar determine whether or not its possible to get to that point and hopefully save Alfred, without causing any rebound explosions along the way. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of Philosophers Stones that Edgar tries to reconstitute. For each stone there are two lines. The first contains the integer N. The second contains the lengthN string C.N. Output For the ith stone, output a line containing Case i followed by a single character, either Y if its possible For Edgar to end up with the Philosophers Stone, or N if not. Constraints T N , N is odd Ci A, B The sum of N over all test cases is at most ,. Explanation of Sample In the first case, Edgar is able to fuse the three shards together, as they include two differentlycoloured shards, yielding a single blackcoloured shard the Philosophers Stone. In the second case, the three black shards will inevitably cause a rebound explosion if fused. In the third case, Edgar can begin by fusing the first three shards into a single auburncoloured shard. The row of shards will then feature colours ABA, and those shards can be fused into the Philosophers Stone.# Running on Fumes Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercupqualificationroundproblemsD. The solution to either chapter may help with solving the other, so please consider reading both first. You just landed yourself a gig as a delivery driver for a nationwide supply chain. Youve been assigned a series of longhaul jobs, so its time to get to work. For each job, you will be provided with a map of the relevant region, which includes N cities numbered from to N and N twoway roads running amongst them. The cities are connected by roads in a single line, such that theres a road between each pair of consecutive cities. In other words, cities i and j are directly connected by a road if and only if i j . You will begin in city with a shipment of supplies to be delivered to city N, and with a full gas tank having a capacity of M gallons. You will then have two options at each point in time . Drive along a road from your current city to an adjacent one, using up gallon of gas. You may not do this if your tank is empty, but its fine if your tank becomes empty as a result. . Fill your tank all the way back up to M gallons of gas at a cost of Ci dollars, where i is your current city. Note that the cost is independent of how much gas your tank had before refueling. You may not do this if city i has no gas station indicated with Ci . Determine the minimum cost required to arrive at city N, if its possible at all. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of longhaul jobs youve been assigned. For each job there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the single integer Ci. Output For the ith job, output a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the minimum cost in dollars to get from city to city N, or if its impossible. Constraints T N , M N Ci , The sum of N across all jobs is at most ,. Sample Explanation In the first job, you will begin in city with gallons of gas. You cannot drive all the way to your destination city without refueling along the way, as that would require a total of gallons of gas. The cheapest option is to drive to city , top up your tank for a cost of , and then drive through cities and before reaching city with no more gas to spare. In the second job, your gas tank only has a capacity of gallons. In this case, the cheapest strategy involves depleting all of your gas to drive to city , refueling there for , and then depleting all of your gas to reach city . In the third job, your gas tank only has a capacity of gallon. No matter what you do, you will deplete all of your gas in the drive from city to city , where there will be no way to refuel to reach city .# Running on Fumes Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercupqualificationroundproblemsD. The solution to either chapter may help with solving the other, so please consider reading both first. After working for many months as a delivery driver for a nationwide supply chain, youve finally received a promotion This promotion has come with a nice pay bump, but also with the responsibility of serving regions with more complex maps. With no opportunity for a vacation, youve promptly been assigned a new series of longhaul jobs. For each job, you will be provided with a map of the relevant region, which includes N cities numbered from to N and N twoway roads running amongst them. In computer science terms, the map is organized like a tree rooted at city , such each city i is connected to its parent city Pi by a road aside from city , which has no parent, with P given as . Its possible to drive from any city to any other city by following a sequence of roads. Note that each road may be driven along in either direction either from city i to city Pi, or vice versa. You will begin in a given city A with a shipment of supplies to be delivered to another given city B, and with a full gas tank having a capacity of M gallons. You will then have two options at each point in time . Drive along a road from your current city to an adjacent one, using up gallon of gas. You may not do this if your tank is empty, but its fine if your tank becomes empty as a result. . Fill your tank all the way back up to M gallons of gas at a cost of Ci dollars, where i is your current city. Note that the cost is independent of how much gas your tank had before refueling. You may not do this if city i has no gas station indicated with Ci . Determine the minimum cost required to complete your delivery, if its possible at all. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of longhaul jobs you are assigned. For each job there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N, M, A, and B. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Pi and Ci. Output For the ith job, output a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the minimum cost in dollars to get from city A to city B, or if its impossible. Constraints T N , M N A, B N A B Pi N Ci , The sum of N across all jobs is at most ,. Explanation of Sample The regional map for the first job looks as follows You will begin in city with gallon of gas. The cheapest strategy involves driving to city , refueling there for a cost of , and then driving onwards to city . The regional map for the next jobs looks as follows, such that you need to drive from city to city In the second job, your gas tank has a capacity of gallon. No matter what you do, you will deplete all of your gas in the drive from city to city , where there will be no way to refuel and proceed to eventually reach city . In the third job, your gas tank has a capacity of gallons. The cheapest strategy involves refueling at both cities and on the way to city , costing a total of . In the fourth job, your gas tank has a capacity of gallons. This isnt quite enough to drive all the way to city without refueling. The cheapest strategy involves depleting all of your gas to drive through cities and to city , refueling there for , and then depleting all of your gas to drive through cities and to reach city .# Timber Every year, millions of logs are sent floating downstream in the great Canadian log drivehttpswww.youtube.comwatchvAheBqBkiQ. But as every Canadian knows, you cant have a successful log drive without logs. The first step in the logging season is to fell a great number of trees, taking care not to pile the trees up in a way that will make them hard to move. Eva has been assigned a section of forest with N trees standing in a row. Looking at them from the side and modeling the ground as a number line, the ith tree is at position Pi measured in metres and has a height of Hi metres. All of the trees are at distinct positions. Each tree may be cut down such that it falls either to the left or to the right, or it may be left standing its important to farm trees sustainably. If the ith tree is cut down to the left, it will form a timber interval of Pi Hi, Pi on the ground, while if it is cut down to the right, it will form a timber interval Pi, Pi Hi. The trees that are cut down will be moved into a nearby river to begin their long journey to the mill. Its hard to move a tree that has another tree on top of it, so Eva will not cut down trees in a way that would cause the intersection of any pair of timber intervals to have positive length. Its fine however, and indeed desirable, for two timber intervals to share an endpoint in common. For example, one tree may be cut down to create a timber interval of a, b and another may be cut down to create a timber interval of b, c. Its also fine for timber intervals to overlap with trees which have not been cut down. Uncut trees are essentially ignored. A combined timber interval is an interval where each point within it is within at least one timber interval. For example, if you have timber intervals a, b and b, c for any a b c, then a, c is a combined timber interval. Eva would like to form the largest combined timber interval possible, as that represents a series of trees that can all be pushed into the river at once. Determine the maximum possible length that a combined timber interval could have if Eva cuts down trees optimally. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of forest sections that Eva will work in. For each section, there is first a line containing the single integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Pi and Hi. Output For the ith section, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the length of the largest possible combined timber interval that Eva can create in that section of forest. Constraints T N , , Pi , Hi , The sum of N across all forest sections is at most ,. Explanation of Sample In the first case, if both trees are cut down such that they fall to the right, a combined timber interval of length between positions and will be formed. In the second case, if the first tree falls to the right and the second falls to the left, they will similarly form a combined timber interval of length . In the third case, no matter how the trees are cut down, their endpoints cannot coincide. Therefore, the longest possible combined timber interval consists of just the third tree being chopped down.# Travel Restrictions has been a tough year for travelers. Air travel is especially problematic as passengers need to spend long periods in security lines, waiting areas, and crowded cabins where social distancing is difficult to maintain. To minimize the spread of COVID, each airline has decided to reorganize all of their flight routes in a linear fashion. The airlines are hoping that by not making any one country a hub, the spread of the virus will be significantly limited. An airlines flights normally service N countries, running in various directions. Amidst the pandemic, each airline has carefully arranged these N countries in a sequence with each assigned a number from to N. Flights are limited to run only between pairs of countries that are adjacent in this sequence, with service in both directions. No other flights are available. That is, flights are available from country i to country j if and only if i j . To make things more complicated, some countries have issued their own restrictions on incoming and outgoing travel. These restrictions are indicated by the characters I.N and O.N, each of which is either N or Y If Ii N, then incoming flights to country i from any other country are disallowed. Otherwise, if Ii Y, they may be allowed. If Oi N, then outgoing flights from country i to any other country are disallowed. Otherwise, if Oi Y, they may be allowed. If a flight between adjacent countries is disallowed by the restrictions of neither its departure country nor its arrival country, then its allowed. As a consulting data scientist in the airline industry, your job is to determine which trips between the various countries are possible. Let Pi,j Y if its possible to travel from country i to country j via a sequence of or more flights which may pass through other countries along the way, and Pi,j N otherwise. Note that Pi,i is always Y. Output this NN matrix of characters. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of airlines. For each airline, there are three lines. The first line contains the integer N. The second line contains the lengthN string I.N. The third line contains the lengthN string O.N. Output For the ith airline, output a line containing Case i followed by N more lines, the ith of which contains the lengthN string Pi,.N. Constraints T N Explanation of Sample In the first case, there are two countries with no restrictions. Therefore, trips between all pairs of countries are possible. In the second case, there are two countries, and traveling into country is restricted. Since country is the only country adjacent to country , the only impossible trip is from country to country . In the third case, there are two countries, both of which restrict inbound travel. In the fourth case, one may not enter countries or , nor exit country .# Dislodging Logs The ingenuity of the great Canadian log drive is the use of natural rivers to transport logs. But as every Canadian knows, not every body of water is so freeflowing, especially in winter. In slowmoving sections of a river, its common for the surface of the water to freeze overnight, trapping the logs. The log drivers can break up the ice with their longhandled picks, but well give them a helping hand anyway. With dynamitehttpswww.youtube.comwatchvAheBqBkiQfeatureyoutu.bet. Paul is in charge of coordinating the placement of explosive charges. This is the best dynamiterelated job in the log drive, not because its the safest which it is, but because you get to light the fuse at the end. We can model the relevant section of the river as a number line with N log drivers and M clusters of frozen logs. The ith log driver is at position Pi measured in metres, and the ith cluster of logs is at position Qi. All NM of these initial positions are distinct. Every second, each log driver can move one metre to either the left or right, or remain stationary. Multiple log drivers are permitted to occupy the same position. When a log driver occupies the same position as a cluster of frozen logs, they can spend S seconds to set an explosive charge, and can continue moving after that. Due to an error, please note that S is always equal to . As soon as an explosive charge is in place at every cluster, Paul will begin the detonation process by lighting the universal fuse dont worry, the fuse is long enough to allow the other log drivers to clear out in time. If Paul commands the log drivers optimally, whats the minimum amount of time after which he can light the fuse In order to reduce the size of the input, the positions of the logs and log drivers will not all be provided explicitly. Instead, youll be given the first K values P.K and Q.K, as well as the two quadruples of constants AP, BP, CP, DP and AQ, BQ, CQ, DQ, and must then compute PK.N and QK.M as follows Pi AP Pi BP Pi CP modulo DP for i K Qi AQ Qi BQ Qi CQ modulo DQ for i K Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of frozen river sections. For each section, there are lines. The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N, M, K, and S. The second line contains the K spaceseparated integers P.K. The third line contains the spaceseparated integers AP, BP, CP, and DP. The fourth line contains the K spaceseparated integers Q.K. The fifth line contains the spaceseparated integers AQ, BQ, CQ, and DQ. Output For the ith river section, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the minimum amount of time in seconds before the explosive charges can all be placed and Paul can light the fuse. Constraints T N, M , K minN, M S AP, BP, CP, AQ, BQ, CQ , DP, DQ , Pi DP Qi DQ The sum of NM across all test cases is at most ,. Explanation of Sample For the first river section, P , and Q , . Its optimal for the first log driver to walk to the first log cluster at position in seconds and set an explosive charge there, while the second log driver walks to the second cluster in seconds and does the same. After seconds, both explosive charges will have been placed, at which point Paul can light the fuse. For the second river section, its optimal for the first log driver to take the day off while the second walks to the second log cluster, sets an explosive charge there, and then walks to the first cluster and does the same. This process will take a total of seconds. For the fourth river section P , , , , Q , , , # Perimetric Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapters httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA and httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA. The solution to any chapter may help with solving the others, so please consider reading all of them. After a highly successful haul from the log drive, Connie the contractor is tasked with building a number of houses in the Great White North. For each job, the client has provided a floor plan consisting of N rectangular rooms, numbered from to N. From a birdseye view, the rooms are arranged on a dimensional plane, with axisaligned walls. The southern wall of each room has ycoordinate . The ith rectangular room has southwest corner Li, and northeast corner Li W, Hi. In this chapter of the problem, all N rooms have the same width W, and have strictly increasing L values L K Hi AH Hi BH Hi CH modulo DH for i K Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of floor plans. For each plan, there are lines. The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N, K, and W. The second line contains the K spaceseparated integers L.K. The third line contains the spaceseparated integers AL, BL, CL, and DL. The fourth line contains the K spaceseparated integers H.K. The fifth line contains the spaceseparated integers AH, BH, CH, and DH. Output For the ith floor plan, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the product P P . PN as defined above, modulo ,. Constraints T N , K N W AL, BL, CL, AH, BH, CH , DL, DH , Li DL Hi DH L L . LN The sum of N across all floor plans is at most ,. Explanation of Sample For the first floor plan, L , and H , . The union of just the first rooms rectangle is equivalent to that rectangle, which has a width of and a height of , and therefore a perimeter of . The union of both rooms rectangles is equivalent to a single rectangle with a width of and a height of with southwest corner , having a perimeter of . The answer is therefore modulo , . For the second floor plan, P , . For the third floor plan, P , , . For the fourth floor plan L , , , , , H , , , , , P , , , , , # Perimetric Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapters httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA and httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA. The solution to any chapter may help with solving the others, so please consider reading all of them. After a highly successful haul from the log drive, Connie the contractor is tasked with building a number of houses in the Great White North. For each job, the client has provided a floor plan consisting of N rectangular rooms, numbered from to N. From a birdseye view, the rooms are arranged on a dimensional plane, with axisaligned walls. The southern wall of each room has ycoordinate . The ith rectangular room has southwest corner Li, and northeast corner Li Wi, Hi. In this chapter of the problem, the rooms have nonincreasing H values H H . HN. Since houses often have shared regions such as a common livingdining area, these rooms may overlap with one another. Unfortunately, log houses are quite susceptible to air leakagehttpswww.energy.govenergysavertypeshomesenergyefficiencyloghomes. Connie knows that she must install additional insulation to keep the houses warm and energyefficient during the harsh Canadian winters. In order to determine the amount of insulation material required, Connie will first need to gather some metrics the perimeters around various combinations of rooms. Specifically, let Pi be the perimeter of the union of rooms .i. Note that any given point is considered to be within the union if and only if its within at least one of the rooms rectangles including right on an edge, and that the union might not form a single connected polygon. Please help compute the product P P . PN. As this product may be very large, you should compute its value modulo ,. In order to reduce the size of the input, the rooms coordinates will not all be provided explicitly. Instead, youll be given the first K values L.K, W.K, and H.K, as well as the three quadruples of constants AL, BL, CL, DL, AW, BW, CW, DW, and AH, BH, CH, DH, and must then compute LK.N, WK.N, and HK.N as follows Li AL Li BL Li CL modulo DL for i K Wi AW Wi BW Wi CW modulo DW for i K Hi AH Hi BH Hi CH modulo DH for i K Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of floor plans. For each plan, there are lines. The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N and K. The second line contains the K spaceseparated integers L.K. The third line contains the spaceseparated integers AL, BL, CL, and DL. The fourth line contains the K spaceseparated integers W.K. The fifth line contains the spaceseparated integers AW, BW, CW, and DW. The sixth line contains the K spaceseparated integers H.K. The seventh line contains the spaceseparated integers AH, BH, CH, and DH. Output For the ith floor plan, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the product P P . PN as defined above, modulo ,. Constraints T N , K N AL, BL, CL, AW, BW, CW, AH, BH, CH , DL, DW, DH , Li DL Wi DW Hi DH H H . HN The sum of N across all floor plans is at most ,. Explanation of Sample For the first floor plan, L , and H , . The union of just the first rooms rectangle is equivalent to that rectangle, which has a width of and a height of , and therefore a perimeter of . The union of both rooms rectangles is equivalent to a single rectangle with a width of and a height of with southwest corner , having a perimeter of . The answer is therefore modulo , . For the second floor plan, P , . For the third floor plan, P , , . For the fourth floor plan L , , , , , W , , , , , H , , , , , P , , , , , # Perimetric Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapters httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA and httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA. The solution to any chapter may help with solving the others, so please consider reading all of them. After a highly successful haul from the log drive, Connie the contractor is tasked with building a number of houses in the Great White North. For each job, the client has provided a floor plan consisting of N rectangular rooms, numbered from to N. From a birdseye view, the rooms are arranged on a dimensional plane, with axisaligned walls. The southern wall of each room has ycoordinate . The ith rectangular room has southwest corner Li, and northeast corner Li Wi, Hi. In this chapter of the problem, the rooms have nondecreasing H values H H . HN. Since houses often have shared regions such as a common livingdining area, these rooms may overlap with one another. Unfortunately, log houses are quite susceptible to air leakagehttpswww.energy.govenergysavertypeshomesenergyefficiencyloghomes. Connie knows that she must install additional insulation to keep the houses warm and energyefficient during the harsh Canadian winters. In order to determine the amount of insulation material required, Connie will first need to gather some metrics the perimeters around various combinations of rooms. Specifically, let Pi be the perimeter of the union of rooms .i. Note that any given point is considered to be within the union if and only if its within at least one of the rooms rectangles including right on an edge, and that the union might not form a single connected polygon. Please help compute the product P P . PN. As this product may be very large, you should compute its value modulo ,. In order to reduce the size of the input, the rooms coordinates will not all be provided explicitly. Instead, youll be given the first K values L.K, W.K, and H.K, as well as the three quadruples of constants AL, BL, CL, DL, AW, BW, CW, DW, and AH, BH, CH, DH, and must then compute LK.N, WK.N, and HK.N as follows Li AL Li BL Li CL modulo DL for i K Wi AW Wi BW Wi CW modulo DW for i K Hi AH Hi BH Hi CH modulo DH for i K Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of floor plans. For each plan, there are lines. The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N and K. The second line contains the K spaceseparated integers L.K. The third line contains the spaceseparated integers AL, BL, CL, and DL. The fourth line contains the K spaceseparated integers W.K. The fifth line contains the spaceseparated integers AW, BW, CW, and DW. The sixth line contains the K spaceseparated integers H.K. The seventh line contains the spaceseparated integers AH, BH, CH, and DH. Output For the ith floor plan, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the product P P . PN as defined above, modulo ,. Constraints T N , K N AL, BL, CL, AW, BW, CW, AH, BH, CH , DL, DW, DH , Li DL Wi DW Hi DH H H . HN The sum of N across all floor plans is at most ,. Explanation of Sample For the first floor plan, L , and H , . The union of just the first rooms rectangle is equivalent to that rectangle, which has a width of and a height of , and therefore a perimeter of . The union of both rooms rectangles is equivalent to a single rectangle with a width of and a height of with southwest corner , having a perimeter of . The answer is therefore modulo , . For the second floor plan, P , . For the third floor plan, P , , . For the fourth floor plan L , , , , , W , , , , , H , , , , , P , , , , , # Quarantine Lets give it up for all the health care professionals working on the front lines in the face of the COVID pandemic. Many of them can be found at the StanfordSunnyvale Teaching Hospital SSTH, a facility thats working tirelessly to keep the disease under control. The hospital is already following standard infection prevention and control practices, but Dr. Gregory Klaus, M.D. one of SSTHs most brilliant doctors is hoping to further reduce transmissions by making some renovations to the building layout. A certain floor of the SSTH facility features N rooms numbered from to N and N hallways each running directly between a pair of rooms, such that every room is reachable from every other room through a sequence of hallways. In computer science terms, the floor is organized like a tree rooted at room . Specifically, for each room i aside from the first i N, theres a hallway running between it and room Ei that can be traversed in either direction. Each room i contains either a patient that has been diagnosed with COVID denoted by Si , or otherwise an uninfected patient denoted by Si . With the help of the hospitals construction team, Dr. Klaus plans to renovate the floor as follows close down one existing hallway and then construct a new one between two rooms, such that all rooms on the floor still end up reachable from all other rooms. In doing so, he would like to maximize the number of unordered pairs of uninfected patients who can safely reach each other in the resulting layout. An uninfected patient can safely reach another uninfected patient if their rooms are connected by a sequence of hallways which doesnt pass through any rooms with infected patients. Its possible that Dr. Klaus may elect to close down a hallway and then reconstruct a hallway between that same pair of rooms the renovation budget needs to go somewhere. For example, consider the following floor layout, with rooms and containing infected patients Initially, only the uninfected patients in rooms and can safely reach each another. However, if Dr. Klaus were to close down the hallway between rooms and and construct a new one between rooms and as illustrated below, then patients in any of the three pairs of rooms , , and , would be able to reach one another Klaus has just two questions what is the maximum attainable number of such safelyreachable uninfected patient pairs, and what is the number of distinct ordered pairs of hallway closuresconstructions yielding that result In order to reduce the size of the input, the values E.N will not all be provided explicitly. Instead, youll be given the first K values E.K, as well as the constants A, B, and C, and must then compute the remaining values EK.N as follows Ei A Ei B Ei C modulo i for i K Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of hospital floors. For each floor, there are lines. The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N and K. The second line contains the lengthN string S.N. The third line contains the K spaceseparated integers E.K. The fourth line contains the spaceseparated integers A, B, and C. Output For the ith hospital floor, print a line containing Case i followed by integers, the maximum attainable number of safelyreachable uninfected patient pairs, and the number of distinct renovation plans yielding that result. Constraints T N , K N Si , A, B, C , Ei i The sum of N across all floors is at most ,. Explanation of Sample For the first floor, any of the following four renovation plans would result in every uninfected patient being able to safely reach every other uninfected patient for a total of pairs Close hallway , construct hallway Close hallway , construct hallway Close hallway , construct hallway Close hallway , construct hallway For the second floor, the same four renovation plans would all result in safelyreachable uninfected patient pairs, while still ensuring that all rooms remain reachable from all other rooms. For the third floor, only the following two renovation plans would allow the two uninfected patients to safely reach one another Close hallway , construct hallway Close hallway , construct hallway The fourth floor is illustrated above, including one of eight optimal renovation plans for it. For the sixth floor, E.N , , , , .# Capastaty During the COVID pandemic, Pascal, like many others, has become an expert at cooking pastahttpsxkcd.com. Hes become so talented that hes decided to open his own restaurant The challenge is that restaurants today must follow strict capacity guidelines to reduce the viruss spread. Hes got the cooking covered, but will need help optimizing the seating logistics in order to achieve a good tradeoff between a booming business and responsible social distancing. On a certain day, Pascals restaurant is divided into N open seating sections numbered from to N, with Si customers initially sitting in each section i. To keep business strong, but seating capacity manageable, Pascal insists that each section i must seat between Xi and Xi Yi customers, inclusive. In an attempt to achieve this, he may repeatedly choose a customer to politely yet forcibly relocate from their current seating section to a different section of Pascals choice. Customers would be annoyed by too much shuffling about, so Pascal has asked for your help in determining the minimum number of such relocations necessary. If the criteria cannot all be met after any number of relocations, you should report a value of instead. In order to reduce the size of the input, the above values will not all be provided explicitly. Instead, youll be given the first K values S.K, X.K, and Y.K, as well as the three quadruples of constants AS, BS, CS, DS, AX, BX, CX, DX, and AY, BY, CY, DY, and must then compute SK.N, XK.N, and YK.N as follows Si AS Si BS Si CS modulo DS for i K Xi AX Xi BX Xi CX modulo DX for i K Yi AY Yi BY Yi CY modulo DY for i K The sum of N across all T days is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of days. For each day, there are lines The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N and K. The second line contains the K spaceseparated integers S.K. The third line contains the spaceseparated integers AS, BS, CS, and DS. The fourth line contains the K spaceseparated integers X.K. The fifth line contains the spaceseparated integers AX, BX, CX, and DX. The sixth line contains the K spaceseparated integers Y.K. The seventh line contains the spaceseparated integers AY, BY, CY, and DY. Output For the ith day, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, either the minimum number of customer relocations required, or if its impossible. Constraints T N , K N AS, BS, CS, AX, BX, CX, AY, BY, CY , DS, DX, DY , Si DS Xi DX Yi DY Explanation of Sample On the first day, Pascal divides his restaurant into seating sections, with S , X , and Y , . In other words, the first section initially has customers but needs to have exactly , while the second initially has but needs to have exactly . Relocating a single customer from the first section to the second would satisfy both requirements. On the second day, each section needs to end up with anywhere between and customers, inclusive. Relocating customers from the second section to the first would accomplish this. On the third day, its impossible to satisfy all of the requirements. For example, if customers were relocated from the first section to the second, the first section would be left with fewer than its required minimum of customers. On the fifth day, S , , , X , , , and Y , , .# Circular Circles Cyrus has come across a curious sight an undirected, weighted graph with NM nodes numbered from to NM and NM N edges numbered from to NM N . Each edge initially has a weight of . What makes this graph so curious is its shape. The nodes are arranged in N circles of M nodes each. Nodes .M are in the first circle, nodes M.M are in the second, and so on. In each circle, the nodes are arranged in clockwise order ordered by increasing node number. The first NM edges lie within circles, with M edges per circle. Edges .M lie within the first circle, edges M.M lie within the second, and so on. In each circle, its first lowestnumbered edge connects the circles first and second nodes, its second edge connects its second and third nodes, and so on, with its final edge connecting its final and first nodes. There are N more edges edges NM.NM N connecting the N circles into what might be considered an additional circle. Each circle i has two connection points, the first of which is its Xist node that is, node Mi Xi, and the second of which is its Yist node node Mi Yi. Xi and Yi are not necessarily distinct. The ith of the N final edges connects the second connection point of circle i and the first connection point of circle i modulo N. That is, theres an edge between nodes M Y and M X, another between M Y and M X, and so on, with the final edge connecting nodes MN YN and M X. For example, if N , M , X , , and Y , , the graph would look as follows with the first NM edges indicated in blue, and the last N in red Cyrus was hoping to practice computing the minimum spanning treehttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiMinimumspanningtree of this graph, but its starting to change before his very eyes E events are about to occur on the graph numbered from to E, one after another. Event i will cause the weight of edge Ii to become Wi. When an edges weight changes, it will remain at its new value for future events until changed again. Let Vi be the weight of the graphs minimum spanning tree after the first i events. Help Cyrus compute the product of V.E. As this product may be very large, you should only compute its value modulo ,. In order to reduce the size of the input, the above values will not all be provided explicitly. Instead, youll be given the first K values X.K, Y.K, I.K, and W.K, as well as the four triples of constants AX, BX, CX, AY, BY, CY, AI, BI, CI, and AW, BW, CW, and must then compute XK.N, YK.N, IK.E, and WK.E as follows Xi AX Xi BX Xi CX modulo M for i K Yi AY Yi BY Yi CY modulo M for i K Ii AI Ii BI Ii CI modulo NM N for i K Wi AW Wi BW Wi CW modulo , for i K Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of graphs. For each graph, there are lines The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N, M, E, and K. The second line contains the K spaceseparated integers X.K. The third line contains the spaceseparated integers AX, BX, and CX. The fourth line contains the K spaceseparated integers Y.K. The fifth line contains the spaceseparated integers AY, BY, and CY. The sixth line contains the K spaceseparated integers I.K. The seventh line contains the spaceseparated integers AI, BI, and CI. The eighth line contains the K spaceseparated integers W.K. The ninth line contains the spaceseparated integers AW, BW, and CW. Output For the ith graph, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the product of V.E modulo ,. Constraints T N, M , NM N , E , K minN, E AX, BX, CX, AY, BY, CY, AI, BI, CI, AW, BW, CW , Xi, Yi M Ii NM N Wi , The sum of NM E across all T graphs is at most ,. Explanation of Sample For the first graph X , Y , I , W , Each event causes an edge weight to remain equal to . Therefore, the graph looks as follows, both initially and after all three events A minimum spanning tree on this graph must involve weight edges. Therefore, V , , and the final answer is modulo , . For the second graph X , Y , I , , , , W , , , , After the eighth and final event, the graph looks as follows, with one possible minimum spanning tree highlighted For this graph, V , , , , . For the third graph X , Y , I , , , , , W , , , , , For this graph, V , , , , , . For the fourth graph X , , Y , , # Elimination The Facebook Whacker Cup is a series of pingpong tournaments to find the best paddlers on the social network. A tournament consists of N pingpong players and N elimination matches among them. The players are numbered from to N in increasing order of skill. In each match, two players will be randomly selected from the set of players still in contention if there are x players, then all xx unordered pairs of them are equally likely to be selected. Those players will then play against each other, with the more skilled highernumbered of the two winning with a probability of P. The loser will then be eliminated from the tournament, and will not be involved in any future matches. After N such matches, there will be exactly one player remaining who will be declared the Whacker Cup champion For each player, determine the expected number of matches which will occur while theyre still in contention before theyre either eliminated or the tournament concludes. This should include matches which they either directly compete in including the one in which they lose and get eliminated, or which simply occur before theyve been eliminated. Each of your answers must have at most absolute or relative error to be considered correct. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of tournaments. For each tournament, there is one line containing the spaceseparated integer N and real number P given with at most digits after the decimal point. Output For the ith tournament, output a line containing Case i followed by N lines, the jth of which contains a single real number, the expected number of matches which will occur while player j is still in contention. Constraints T N . P . The sum of N across all T tournaments is at most ,. Explanation of Sample In the first tournament, player is guaranteed to defeat player . Regardless of the result, however, both players will be present for the tournaments single match. In the second tournament, player is guaranteed to defeat players and , while player is guaranteed to defeat player . There are three possible, equallylikely sequences of matches with AB representing a match in which player A beats player B followed by followed by followed by All players are guaranteed to be in contention during at least the first match. Player has a chance to also be present for the second match if the last sequence occurs, player s chance is if either of the first two sequences occurs, and player is guaranteed to be present for both matches. In the third tournament, the match results are again deterministic. The first match will feature one of possible player pairs, the second match will feature one of possible pairs of remaining players, and the third match will be between the final pair of players. Overall, there are possible scenarios. Across these scenarios, the total counts of hypothetical matches before elimination are for player , for player , for player , and for player . Dividing each by yields the expected answer. In the fourth tournament, matches could go either way with equal probability skill levels dont matter. There are possible, equallylikely first match outcomes , , , after which only the eliminated player wont be present for the second match. Therefore, each player has a chance of being present for one match, and a chance of being present for both.# Log Drivin Hirin The rapid flow of rivers is an effective way to move logs in the great Canadian log drive. But as every Canadian knows, it can be a doubleedged sword. If logs get stuck on the riverbanks, theyll eventually pile up and cause the river to overflow. Sometimes you need a helping hand to keep the logs movinghttpsyoutu.beAheBqBkiQt. In a given river system there are N lakes, numbered from to N, and N rivers flowing amongst the lakes. For each lake i such that i N, theres a river flowing from lake Pi to lake i which is Li metres long. There are no rivers flowing into lake . P and L are defined to be equal to , but are irrelevant. Its guaranteed that each lake is accessible from lake by some sequence of rivers. Each lake with no rivers flowing out of it has a logprocessing plant. Shipments of logs are often transported through these lakes and rivers. Each shipment consists of some number of logs, and is managed by a log driver with some integer carelessness value. A shipment may be transported from a lake by means of a river flowing out of it, to the lake which that river flows into. However, a number of logs will be permanently lost along the way, equal to the log drivers carelessness value multiplied by the length of the river in metres. We can assume that shipments are always large enough that they dont risk completely running out of logs. Each shipment continues to be transported from lake to lake until reaching a logprocessing plant. Other log drivers available for hire also live by the lakes. Theres a log driver living by each lake i with a carelessness of Hi. Whenever a shipment of logs is at lake i, the company that owns the shipment may choose to hire the log driver there to take over in place of the shipments current log driver. The newlyhired log driver will then manage the shipment until it either reaches a logprocessing plant, or another log driver is later hired to replace them. As part of the logistics team, you need to answer M questions, the ith of which asks If you begin with a shipment of logs in lake Xi, being managed by a log driver with a carelessness of Yi, whats the minimum number of logs which can be lost by the time the shipment reaches any logprocessing plant Please note that each question is independent of the others for example, the same log driver may be hired as part of the answer to multiple different questions. Let Vi be the answer to the ith question. In order to reduce the size of the output, you must calculate a single integer the product of Vi over i.M. As this product may be very large, you should only compute its value modulo ,. In order to reduce the size of the input, the above values will not all be provided explicitly. Instead, youll be given the first K values P.K, L.K, H.K, X.K, and Y.K, as well as the five tuples of constants AP, BP, CP, AL, BL, CL, DL, AH, BH, CH, DH, and AX, BX, CX, AY, BY, CY, DY, and must then compute PK.N, LK.N, HK.N, XK.M, and YK.M as follows Pi AP Pi BP Pi CP modulo i for i K Li AL Li BL Li CL modulo DL for i K Hi AH Hi BH Hi CH modulo DH for i K Xi AX Xi BX Xi CX modulo N for i K Yi AY Yi BY Yi CY modulo DY for i K Constraints T N, M , K minN, M AP, BP, CP, AL, BL, CL, AH, BH, CH, AX, BX, CX, AY, BY, CY , DL, DH, DY , Pi i Pi if and only if i Li DL Li if and only if i Hi DH Xi N Yi DY The sum of NM over all T test cases is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of river systems. For each system, there are lines The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N, M, and K. The second line contains the K spaceseparated integers P.K. The third line contains the spaceseparated integers AP, BP, and CP. The fourth line contains the K spaceseparated integers L.K. The fifth line contains the spaceseparated integers AL, BL, CL, and DL. The sixth line contains the K spaceseparated integers H.K. The seventh line contains the spaceseparated integers AH, BH, CH, and DH. The eighth line contains the K spaceseparated integers X.K. The ninth line contains the spaceseparated integers AX, BX, and CX. The tenth line contains the K spaceseparated integers Y.K. The eleventh line contains the spaceseparated integers AY, BY, CY, and DY. Output For the ith river system, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the product of Vi over i.M, modulo ,. Explanation of Sample In the first case P , L , H , X , , Y , , The system of lakes and rivers looks as follows with hireable log drivers carelessness values indicated in circles, and lakes with logprocessing plants marked in brown The first question deals with a shipment of logs at lake being managed by a log driver with carelessness . Its optimal for this log driver to move the shipment to lake while losing logs, and then to lake losing another logs, with a total of logs lost. For the second question, the log driver should move the shipment to lake and then be replaced by the log driver living there who has a carelessness of , who will move it to lake . This would result in a total of logs lost. For the third question, the log driver should move the shipment to lake , losing logs along the way. For the fourth question, the shipment begins at a lake with a logprocessing plant, meaning that no logs need to be lost. Therefore, V , , and the final answer is modulo , . In the second case P , , , L , , , H , , , X , , , Y , , , The system of lakes and rivers looks as follows For the first question, the log driver should move the shipment to lake and then to lake , losing a total of logs along the way. Overall, V , , , . In the third case P , , , , L , , , , H , , , , X , , , , , Y , , , , , For this case, V , , , , , .# Chain Explosions Dynamite is an effective toolhttpsyoutu.beAheBqBkiQt for clearing ice to allow logs to flow downstream in the great Canadian log drive. But as every Canadian knows, successful use of dynamite requires a certain finesse. Logan the logging director is planning to hook up a network of dynamite sticks using fuse wires so that they may be detonated from afar. Logan would like to use at most sticks of dynamite and at most fuse wires to build his dynamite network at a certain job site. Hell number the sticks from to N, and the wires from to M for some N and M of his choice. Each fuse wire is used to connect two different sticks of dynamite together. No two fuse wires may be used to connect the same unordered pair of sticks. The resulting dynamite network must all be connected that is, it must be possible to reach each dynamite stick from each other stick by following a sequence of connected wires and sticks. Theres just one problem sticks of dynamite are not individually powerful enough to break the thick ice. Logan must rely on chain explosions to amplify the dynamites power. A potential chain explosion can occur anywhere in Logans network where there is an ordered triple a, b, c of distinct sticks of dynamite such that sticks a and b are connected by a fuse wire, as are sticks b and c. Logan would like to build a network with exactly K potential chain explosions, where K is an even integer. Any less than K, and there might not be enough icebreaking power any more than K, and he risks damaging the logs. Help Logan bust some ice by constructing any valid dynamite network for the given value of K. Please note that at least one valid network exists for each possible valid value of K. Constraints T K , K is even The sum of K across all job sites is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of job sites. For each job site, there is a line containing a single integer K. Output For the ith job site, print a line containing Case i , followed by integers N and M, the number of sticks of dynamite and fuse wires your network will use N, M . After that, print M more lines, the jth of which contains integers Aj and Bj, the two sticks of dynamite connected by the jth fuse wire Aj, Bj N, Aj Bj. Explanation of Sample Note For each job site, other outputs would also be accepted. For the first job site, the chosen network depicted below has exactly potential chain explosions involving dynamic stick triples , and , , as required. For the second job site, the chosen network depicted below has exactly potential chain explosions involving sticks , , , , , , , , and , . The following output would not be accepted, due to having a fuse wire connecting a stick of dynamite to itself stick and having two fuse wires connecting the same unordered pair of dynamite sticks sticks and The following output would also not be accepted, due to the dynamite network not being connected For the third job site, the chosen network is as follows # Mail Security Facebook Prime is a topsecret subscription service being developed to disrupt the online shopping space. Or maybe theres no such service were not telling. A central focus of the service is preventing package theft, something which has become all too common in todays deliverydriven world. As a member of its engineering team, you wish to model some worstcase scenarios to stress test the vulnerability of poorlyrun mailrooms. In the very worst cases, mailroom managers will actually leave mailbox keys inside mailboxes themselves. This means that if one mailbox were to be broken into, a series of other mailboxes could be compromised as well. Suppose a particular mailroom has N mailboxes numbered from to N, each with a corresponding key, and M packages numbered from to M. The ith mailbox has a capacity of Si, meaning that it can store a set of objects packages or keys as long as the sum of their sizes doesnt exceed Si. The size of the ith package is Pi, and the size of each key is X. For the purposes of our model, a valid mailroom arrangement must satisfy all of the following conditions . Each package is either inside a mailbox, or is entirely absent. . Each key is either inside a mailbox possibly its own corresponding mailbox, or is entirely absent. . Each mailbox contains at most package. . No mailboxs capacity is exceeded. Suppose a thief enters a validly arranged mailroom and forcibly breaks into just one mailbox without needing a key. If the mailbox contains a package, then theyll obtain it if the mailbox contains any keys, the thief can then proceed to open each of those keys corresponding mailboxes and repeat the process gaining access to any packages and keys they contain, and so on. Given the specifications of a mailroom, you wish to determine, among all possible valid arrangements, the largest number of packages that may be obtained after a thief forcibly breaks into a single mailbox. In order to reduce the size of the input, the above values will not all be provided explicitly. Instead, youll be given the first K values S.K and P.K, as well as the two quadruples of constants AS, BS, CS, DS and AP, BP, CP, DP, and must then compute SK.N and PK.M as follows Si AS Si BS Si CS modulo DS for i K Pi AP Pi BP Pi CP modulo DP for i K Constraints T N , M , K minN, M X , AS, BS, CS, AP, BP, CP , DS, DP , Si DS Pi DP The sum of N M across all mailrooms is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of mailrooms to be modeled. For each mailroom, there are lines The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N, M, K, and X. The second line contains the K spaceseparated integers S.K. The third line contains the spaceseparated integers AS, BS, CS, and DS. The fourth line contains the K spaceseparated integers P.K. The fifth line contains the spaceseparated integers AP, BP, CP, and DP. Output For each mailroom, print a line containing Case i , followed by a single integer, the maximum possible number of packages which could be stolen by forcibly breaking into a single mailbox in any valid mailroom arrangement. Explanation of Sample For the first mailroom, S , and P , . If each mailbox contains a package, the st mailbox contains the nd mailboxs key, and the nd mailbox contains the rd mailboxs key, then a thief breaking into the st mailbox would gain access to the nd mailbox followed by the rd, obtaining all three packages in the process. For the second mailroom, S , and P , . If the st and rd mailboxes each contain a package, while the nd mailbox contains all three mailboxes keys, then a thief breaking into the nd mailbox would gain access to the other two mailboxes and their packages. For the third mailroom, S , and P , . No package can fit within any mailbox. For the fourth mailroom, S , , and P , , . Its possible to arrange the mailroom such that two packages are obtainable by a thief, but three or more can never be obtained. For the fifth mailroom, S , , , and P , , .# Railroad Renovations Pennington has taken N trips on his favourite railroad line, which is billion metres long. When the line was first built, creaky wood was used to support the tracks, which made a terrible racket as the train ran along them. Pennington is aware that, since then, or more renovations have been made to the line at various points in time either before his first trip or in between some of his trips, each of which would have involved replacing the supports along some continuous, possiblydegenerate interval of the line with integer endpoints for example, the intervals m, m or m, m could have been renovated, but not .m, .m. No renovations were made during any of his trips. No two renovations intervals could have inclusively overlapped with one another for example, if one renovation involved the interval of positions m, m, then there could not have been another one involving m, m nor m, m, but there could have been one involving m, m. Renovations would never have been undone each one had a permanent effect on its interval of the line. In general, Pennington just sleeps the entire time hes on the train it is a long ride, after all. However, he did briefly wake up exactly once per trip hes taken. During his ith trip, he woke up while the train was at position Pi metres along the line, and he noticed whether the supports at that position had been renovated by that point in time if Ri , they had been, while if Ri , they had not been. Pennington suspects he might have misremembered the order of his trips, though. To get their actual order, it may be necessary to take up to K of them and insert them into other positions in the ordered list of trips with each one moved to either before the first trip, between any two trips, or after the final trip. For example, if K , he could rearrange the nd trip to have actually occurred between the th and th trips essentially shifting trips and to have been his nd and rd trips. Its possible that his observations would only be consistent with any possible sequence of renovations after some rearrangements of this sort, or even that they would be inconsistent after any possible set of K rearrangements. Whats the minimum possible number of renovations that could have been made by the end of Penningtons final trip which would have been consistent with all N of his observations after rearranging at most K of the trips, if this would have been possible at all Constraints T N K N Pi , Ri The sum of N across all sets of train trips is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of sets of train trips. For each set there are N lines. The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N and K. N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Pi and Ri. Output For each set of train trips, print a line containing Case i , followed by a single integer, the minimum possible number of renovations which might have been made by the end of Penningtons final trip, or if no set of renovations would be consistent with his observations, after at most K trip rearrangements. Explanation of Sample In the first case, there could have been a single renovation involving the interval m, m between Penningtons first and second trips. In the second case, no sequence of renovations could explain the supports at position m having been renovated by his first trip but no longer renovated by his second trip. In the third case, if his first trip is rearranged to occur after his second trip, then a single renovation is once again possible as in the first case. In the fourth case, there could have been two renovations involving the intervals m, m and m, m before any of his trips. Its impossible for fewer than two renovations to have occurred. In the fifth case, if his third trip is rearranged to occur before his first trip, then a single renovation involving the interval m, m could have occurred just after it.# Smart Carts Every week you take a sociallydistanced trip to Overwaitea, your favourite grocery store, to stock up on food. Out front, there are N shopping carts, numbered from to N. To dissuade theft, the carts are locked together and you need to insert a quarter to unlock one cart from the rest. When you return your cart, you get your quarter back. Now that you think about it, maybe Canadian cents is actually a pretty good deal for your very own shopping cart. Each cart has a connecting chain leading out of it. There are also N latches, numbered from to N, which chains may be connected to with each latch having at most one incoming chain. Each of the first N latches can be found on carts, with latch i fixed to cart i. The remaining two latches latches N and N are instead mounted to a wall. Each cart is chain is initially connected to latch Ai, but you suspect it would be more aesthetically pleasing if it was instead attached to an ideal target latch Bi. A sequence of K carts S.K is one in which latch S has no incoming chain, cart Ss chain connects to latch S, cart Ss chain connects to latch S, and so on, with cart SKs chain connecting to latch SK, and cart SKs chain not connecting to any cart but rather to either a wall latch or no latch. The carts are rigid enough that its impossible to ever form a cycle of carts, such that repeatedly following chain connections forwards from an initial cart will result in returning to that initial cart. This means that each cart is always part of exactly one sequence, and is present in that sequence exactly once. The values of A.N and B.N are given such that the carts initially form a valid configuration with no cycles, and would also form a valid configuration if every carts chain were to be connected to its ideal target latch. For example, if N and A , , the initial configuration looks as follows having two sequences of carts , and You may repeatedly perform either of the following actions before leaving the carts in a desired final state, in which every chain must end up once again connected to a latch . Pay quarter if you have at least to detach any given carts chain from whichever latch its currently connected to if any . Gain quarter by attaching any given carts currentlyunattached chain to a latch as long as no other chain is currently connected to that latch, and a cycle of carts would not be formed For example, beginning with the above configuration and with at least quarter in hand, you could perform action to detach cart s chain and produce the following configuration which is not a valid final state due to cart s chain not being connected to any latch You could then perform action to attach cart s chain to cart s latch forming a valid final state Consider a hypothetical scenario in which You begin with Q quarters A sequence consisting of more than C carts must never be present including initially The final state must not have a sequence consisting of more than X carts attached to latch N The final state must not have a sequence consisting of more than Y carts attached to latch N Let FQ, C, X, Y be the maximum number of chains which can end up connected to their ideal target latches in a final state given such a scenario, or if its impossible to achieve a valid final state at all. Let Gv be the number of quadruples Q, C, X, Y such that Q, C, X, Y N and FQ, C, X, Y v. Youd like to compute Gv for each integer v such that v N. Constraints T N Ai, Bi N The sum of N across all test cases is at most . Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of sets of shopping carts. For each set there are N lines. The first contains the integer N. N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Output For each set of shopping carts, print a line containing Case i , followed by N integers, G, G, G, ., GN, GN, as defined above. Explanation of Sample In the first case, the initial configuration is as follows There are quadruples Q, C, X, Y to consider. For of them, FQ, C, X, Y , while the following yield different results F, , F, , F, , F, , F, , Several evaluations of FQ, C, X, Y are explained below F, , because the initial configuration features a sequence of cart, which is disallowed due to C . F, , because every possible final state features a sequence of cart connected to either latch or latch , which is disallowed due to X Y . F, , because no action may initially taken without at least quarter. F, , because you may spend your quarter to disconnect cart s chain from latch , and then gain your quarter back while connecting it to latch its ideal target latch. In the second case, the initial configuration is as follows Several evaluations of FQ, C, X, Y are explained below F, , because you may spend your quarters disconnecting all of the carts chains, and then gain your quarters back while connecting the carts chains to their ideal target latches in any order without a sequence of more than carts ever being present. This yields the following final state F, , because you may similarly disconnect and then reconnect all of the carts chains, but cannot arrive at the same final state as above as it features a sequence of carts connected to latch , which is disallowed due to Y . This means that only up to chains may end up connected to their ideal target latches instead, for example as in the following final state # CakeCutting Committee Melody is preparing a cake for a very special occasion. Shes starting off with a square cake, though shed like it cut down into a more unique shape. When viewed from above, it can be represented as a square on a D plane, with opposite corners at coordinates , and S, S. Out of countless contenders, Melody has interviewed N certified cakecutting consultants, asking how the cake should be cut down. The ith consultant, who has a competence value of Ci, has proposed that two cuts should be performed the first being a line segment between coordinates Xi, Yi, and Xi, Yi, and the second between Xi, Yi, and Xi, Yi,. Each of these four points is exactly on a side of the cake but not on a corner, the two points describing each line segment are not on the same side of the cake, and the two line segments do not share any points in common in other words, they dont intersect nor have any equal endpoints. Therefore, the two cuts would split the cake into three nonempty polygonal sections. Of those, the middle section the one between the two cuts would become their proposed cake shape, with the other two sections discarded. For example, the following diagram illustrates a cake with S and a consultants pair of proposed cuts from , to , and from , to , with their resulting proposed cake shape highlighted in blue Melody wants to hire one or more of the consultants to form a committee, whose members will then deliberate on the final shape of the cake. That is, she calls for a completely competent consulting committee capable of coming to a consensus on a commendable cakecutting configuration. Clearly. She wants the sum of the hired consultants competence values to be as large as possible, no matter how many of them she has to hire. However, she wont allow a pair of consultants to both be part of the committee if their cakecutting proposals fundamentally differ, which is the case if their proposed cake shapes do not share any points in common in other words, if those two polygons are entirely disjoint, including at their edges and vertices. For example, the following diagram additionally includes another consultants pair of proposed cuts from , to , and from , to , with their proposed cake shape highlighted in red. Since these two proposed cake shapes do not overlap at all, the two proposals fundamentally differ, meaning that if one of these consultants is hired, the other cannot also be hired On the other hand, each of the following cakes features a pair of proposals which do not fundamentally differ, due to the proposed cake shapes sharing at least one point in common meaning that, for each cake, the two consultants could be hired together Help Melody determine the maximum combined competence of consultants who can form the committee, such that no two of them have fundamentally differing cakecutting proposals. Constraints T N S , Ci , Xi,j, Yi,j S The sum of N across all special occasions is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of special occasions. For each occasion, there are N lines. The first line contains spaceseparated integers, S and N. N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ci, Xi, Yi, Xi, Yi, Xi, Yi, and Xi, Yi,. Output For the ith special occasion, print a line containing Case i , followed by a single integer, the maximum combined competence of cakecutting consultants who can form the committee. Explanation of Sample The first cake along with the consultants proposed cake shapes looks as follows The st and nd consultants cant both be hired together, but either can be hired alongside the rd consultant. So, the best Melody can do is to hire the nd and rd consultants for a combined competence of . The second cake looks as follows Melody can hire all three consultants. The third cake looks as follows The fourth cake looks as follows The fifth cake looks as follows # Cryptoconference Crys just invented a new cryptocurrency and is planning to present it at T blockchain conferences around the world. The conference schedules are already on their way to being finalized, but Crys is considering how she might get her own talks in at the last minute. A certain conference is K hours long, with talks to start and end on the hour. Each talk will span a nonempty inclusive time interval of hours x, y, such that x and y are integers and x y K. N talks are gradually being added to the schedule, one after another, with the ith added talk scheduled to span the time interval Si, Si Di. The N talks are not necessarily added in order of starting or ending time. Their time intervals may arbitrarily overlap with one another, and are not necessarily distinct. Each time a talk is added to the schedule, Crys will then consider submitting a request for her own talk to also be included. This involves proposing a time interval for her talk, which must similarly be an integral interval x, y such that x y K. Crys suspects that her request would be rejected if the inclusion of her talk might prevent an attendee from hearing another talk due to her proposed time interval entirely subsuming an alreadyscheduled one. As such, after the first i talks have been added to the schedule, she will not propose a time interval x, y if there exists any existing talk j j i such that x Sj and Sj Dj y. Letting Ci be the number of different time intervals which Crys could validly propose for her talk after the first i talks have been added to the schedule, please determine the value of C C . CN modulo ,. Constraints T N , K , Si K Di K Si Di K The sum of N across all conferences is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of conferences. For each conference there are N lines. The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N and K. N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Si and Di. Output For the ith conference, print a line containing Case i , followed by a single integer, the product of C.N modulo ,. Explanation of Sample In the first conference, once a talk spanning time interval , exists, Crys can only propose time intervals , and , for her talk without subsuming , . Therefore, C . In the second conference, after the first talk spanning time interval , has been added to the schedule, Crys can propose any of the time intervals , , , or , . After the introduction of the second talk spanning time interval , she can only propose , , or , . Therefore, C , and the final answer is modulo , . In the third conference, C , . In the fourth conference, C , , .# Pond Precipitation Cherry the turtle lives in a long, narrow pond. When crosssectionally viewed from the side, the floor of the pond can be divided into N columns, each flat and metre wide. The ith column from the left is at a depth of Di metres below ground level, and all N column depths are distinct. The pond is surrounded by dirt at ground level, just to the left of column and the right of column N. Cherry loves to sit on the floor in the leftmost column and bask as much as possible but only when its dry. Fortunately for her, the pond is initially devoid of water. For example, if D , , , the pond would look as follows with Cherrys position indicated in green Unusually enormous drops of rainwater are about to begin falling into the pond, one by one, each onto a random column drawn uniformly at random from the set of N columns. Each drop contains crosssectional square metre of water, and obeys the following process . It falls until it hits a flat surface. This surface consists of the highest least deep point in its column which might be either the floor of the pond itself or an existing layer of water atop it, as well as all contiguous equallydeep points to the left and right of it. . If that surface is immediately surrounded by any deeper columns to its left andor right, then the drops water flows down onto one of them. If theres only one such adjacent deeper column, then the drop flows onto that one. If the columns to the left and right are both deeper than the surface note that this can only occur if the surface consists of a single column, then the drops water all flows to the left one. Either way, once the drop flows into a different column, the process repeats back from Step . . Otherwise, the drops crosssectional square metre of water spreads itself out evenly across the entire surface it landed on which will never cause that surface to overflow by becoming strictly higher than the columns to its left or right. Cherry will be forced to stop basking as soon as a nonzero amount of water comes to rest atop column . She doesnt mind if raindrops fall directly on column but then immediately flow away from it. For example, if a raindrop were to fall in column of the above pond, it would flow to the left onto column , and then flow left again to settle in column If a raindrop then fell in column , it would flow to the right and spread itself out over the surface spanning columns and If a raindrop then fell in column , it would remain there Another raindrop falling in column or any column would then yield the following state And one more raindrop falling in any column would yield the following state forcing Cherry to stop basking due to column becoming submerged in water Determine the expected number of drops which will fall before Cherry is forced to stop basking. This will always occur after a finite number of drops have fallen, and before any water overflows the pond. Let this expected number of drops be represented as a quotient of integers pq in lowest terms. Output the value of this quotient modulo , in other words, output the unique integer x such that x , and p xq modulo ,. Constraints T N Di D.N are distinct The sum of N across all ponds is at most . Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of ponds. For each pond, there are lines. The first line contains a single integer N. The second line contains the N spaceseparated integers D.N. Output For the ith pond, print a line containing Case i , followed by a single integer, the expected number of drops which will fall before the leftmost column becomes covered in water, expressed as a quotient of integers modulo ,. Explanation of Sample The first pond initially looks as follows If the first raindrop falls in column , it will settle there, and if it falls in column instead, it will flow into column . Either way, Cherrys position will be submerged and shell be forced to stop basking. The second pond initially looks as follows The first raindrop will always settle in column , leaving Cherry uninterrupted. However, the second raindrop will then always land on the surface spanning both columns, filling both up to a depth of . metres below ground level and thus forcing Cherry to stop basking. The third pond only has a single column, and Cherry will need to stop basking as soon as the first raindrop falls in it. The fourth pond may end up in various states depending on which columns the raindrops fall in. If the first drop falls in either column or , then it will immediately settle in column , while if it falls in column , it will remain there and it will take a second drop to force Cherry to stop basking. The answer is therefore . , modulo , meaning that , should be outputted.# Somebody Elses Problem H Combinator HC is a business incubator that provides seed funding to startups. It operates on the core value that nothing is somebody elses problem since businesses slow down when tasks get perpetually passed from person to person. HC currently supports T companies. As a managing director hoping to weed out some bad investments, you would like to assess how well the structure of each company holds up to this important principle. Suppose a company has N employees, numbered to N in decreasing order of seniority. Employee is the CEO, while each other employee i i has a manager, employee Mi Mi i. When employee i is assigned a task to complete, they may instead reassign it to one of the following employees . One of their direct reports any employee j such that Mj i, if any exist . Their manager employee Mi, if i . The CEO employee , if i That employee may then reassign the task to yet another employee, and so on. However, an employee may never be reassigned a task that has ever been previously assigned to them, as the lack of responsibility would become too apparent. For example, an employee and manager cannot repeatedly pass a task back and forth. Let Ri be the maximum number of times that a task could be reassigned from one employee to another if it were initially assigned to employee i. For each company, you would like to calculate the product R R . RN, modulo ,. Constraints T N , Mi i The sum of N across all companies is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of companies. For each company there are lines. The first line contains the single integer N. The second line contains N spaceseparated integers, M.N. Output For the ith company, print a line containing Case i , followed by a single integer, the product of R.N modulo ,. Explanation of Sample For the first company, if the CEO is initially assigned a task, all they can do is reassign it to one of their reports, who cannot then assign it back. On the other hand, if another employee is initially assigned a task, they can reassign it to the CEO, who can then assign it to the other remaining employee. Therefore, R , , and the final answer is modulo , . For the second company, no matter which employee is initially assigned a task, it can then be reassigned twice. For example, employee can assign their task to their report employee , who can then assign it to the CEO. Therefore, R , . For the third company, R , , . For the fourth company, R , , , , , . For the fifth company, R , , , , , , , .# Spider Spring A family of water spiders lives at a spring located on an earthquake hotspot. The spring features N columns of rocks in a row, numbered to N from left to right. Each rocky column i has a width of cm and a height of Hi cm. The spring always has some global water level. The rocky columns can each be below the water, at water level, or protrude above its surface. A spider in a given column must float on the surface of the water if the rock is below water level or stand atop the rock if its at or above water level. This means that, when the water level is W cm, the effective elevation at column i is maxHi, W cm. For example, the following diagram illustrates a spring with H , , and W , with the effective elevations outlined in black Water spiders sometimes want to travel from one column a to another column b. This involves starting horizontally in the middle of column a, at its effective elevation, and walking along the outline of the effective elevations until ending up horizontally in the middle of column b. This may include walking leftright across the tops of rocks or the surface of the water, as well as updown along the sides of the protruding rocks. Note that a spiders route will never take it left of column , right of column N, below the surface of the water, nor into midair. For example, the path which a water spider would follow from column to column having a length of cm is indicated in red below Unfortunately for the springs inhabitants, frequent earthquakes occur, altering the heights of the rocky columns and the water. The spiders would like to survey the accessibility of the spring after each earthquake. Specifically, M earthquakes are about to occur, one after another. As part of the ith earthquake, the height of each rocky column c such that Xi c minXi Yi , N will become equal to Zi cm, and the global water level will become Wi cm. After each earthquake i, the spiders are interested in the current sum of travel distances in cm over all NN ordered pairs of starting and ending columns well call this quantity Si. Please determine the value of S S . SM modulo ,. In order to reduce the size of the input, the above values will not all be provided explicitly. Instead, youll be given the first K values H.K, X.K, Y.K, Z.K, and W.K, as well as the five quadruples of constants AH, BH, CH, DH, AX, BX, CX, DX, AY, BY, CY, DY, AZ, BZ, CZ, DZ, and AW, BW, CW, DW, and must then compute HK.N, XK.M, YK.M, ZK.M, and WK.M as follows Hi AH Hi BH Hi CH modulo DH for i K Xi AX Xi BX Xi CX modulo DX for i K Yi AY Yi BY Yi CY modulo DY for i K Zi AZ Zi BZ Zi CZ modulo DZ for i K Wi AW Wi BW Wi CW modulo DW for i K Constraints T N , M , K minN, M AH, BH, CH, AX, BX, CX, AY, BY, CY, AZ, BZ, CZ, AW, BW, CW , DH, DZ, DW , DX, DY N Hi DH Xi DX Yi DY Zi DZ Wi DW The sum of N M across all springs is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of springs. For each spring there are lines The first line contains the spaceseparated integers N, M, and K. The second line contains the K spaceseparated integers H.K. The third line contains the spaceseparated integers AH, BH, CH, and DH. The fourth line contains the K spaceseparated integers X.K. The fifth line contains the spaceseparated integers AX, BX, CX, and DX. The sixth line contains the K spaceseparated integers Y.K. The seventh line contains the spaceseparated integers AY, BY, CY, and DY. The eighth line contains the K spaceseparated integers Z.K. The ninth line contains the spaceseparated integers AZ, BZ, CZ, and DZ. The tenth line contains the K spaceseparated integers W.K. The eleventh line contains the spaceseparated integers AW, BW, CW, and DW. Output For the ith spring, print a line containing Case i , followed by a single integer, the product of S.M modulo ,. Explanation of Sample For the first spring, after the first earthquake, the spring looks as follows with the cmlong path which a water spider would follow from column to column , or vice versa, indicated in red After the second earthquake, the spring looks as follows with the path now only being cm long in either direction Therefore, S , and the final answer is modulo , . For the second spring, S , , with the spring left in the following state after the final earthquake For the third spring, S , , , . For the fourth spring H , , , , , X , , , , , , Y , , , , , , Z , , , , , , W , , , , , , S , , , , , , # Tree Training The great Canadian log drive is coming to an endhttpswww.youtube.comwatchvAheBqBkiQfeatureyoutu.bet, for this season at least. Next year, a new crop of log driving hopefuls will compete for their own spot on the river. As every Canadian knows, to stay afloat in the forestry industrys competitive job market, you need to familiarize yourself with all kinds of trees. Hoping to land her dream log driving job, Louise was researching online when she stumbled upon an article about binary search treeshttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiBinarysearchtree BSTs. Determined to become a true expert on all there is to know about trees, she decided to continue reading. In case youre unfamiliar, Louise learned that a BST is a data structure holding nodes that each store a key in this case, a nonnegative integer. A BST may be empty that is, holding no nodes, or otherwise consists of a root node that is optionally connected by edges to left andor right child nodes which are themselves each the root nodes of subtree BSTs, recursively defined in the same fashion. For each node, if its key is k, all keys in its left childs subtree if any must be less than or equal to k, while all keys in its right childs subtree if any must be strictly greater than k. The height of a nonempty BST is defined as the number of edges on the longest path from its root node to any other node or if there are no other nodes. In practice, BSTs start out empty and are constructed by having nodes inserted into them, one by one. When inserting a new key k into an existing BST, one compares the root node with k If the root node doesnt exist, then a node with key k is created in its place and the insertion is complete. Otherwise, if k is less than or equal to the root nodes key, then k is recursively inserted into the left subtree. Otherwise, k must be greater than the root nodes key, in which case it is recursively inserted into the right subtree. The following diagrams illustrate the insertion of keys , , , and into an initially empty BST, ending up with a height of Intrigued, Louise borrowed a data structures textbook from her local library. Upon flipping to the chapter on BSTs, she came upon the following exercise Given a lengthN string S in which each character is either or , please answer the following question for each of the NN nonempty substrings of S. For a given substring of length x, choose a sequence K.x of integer keys. If the substrings ith character is , then Ki . Otherwise, if its , then Ki may be chosen to be any positive integer. Suppose the chosen sequence was inserted into an initially empty BST, in order from K to Kx. What is the minimum possible height of the resulting BST For example, if S , then one of the substrings for which the above question must be answered is . For this substring, one possible choice of K. would be , , , yielding a BST of height as illustrated above. This is the minimum height that a BST could have for any possible choice of K. for this substring, meaning that is the answer to the question for this substring. Louise would like your help with computing the sum of the answers to all NN of these questions. As this sum may be large, you should only compute its value modulo ,. Please help her complete this exercise the fate of her log driving career rests in your hands Constraints T N , Si , The sum of N across all exercises is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of exercises. For each exercise there is a single line consisting of the string S.N as specified above. Output For each exercise, print a line containing Case i , followed by a single integer, the sum of the answers to all NN questions, modulo ,. Explanation of Sample In the first exercise, the substrings present are , and . The first two each result in a BST with just node and therefore height , while the last one yields a BST with nodes and therefore height . The final answer is therefore . In the second exercise, there are substrings, substrings, and substring. The minimum height of a BST yielded by this last substring is for example, if , is chosen for K. The final answer is therefore . The third exercise is similar to the second, except that the substring must yield a BST with height , resulting in an answer of . In the fourth exercise, several of the substrings present are explained below can yield a BST with height for example, with K , can yield a BST with height for example, with K , can yield a BST with height for example, with K , , # Consistency Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercupqualificationroundproblemsA. The solution to either chapter may help with solving the other, so please consider reading both first. Connie received a string S for her birthday, consisting entirely of uppercase letters each between A and Z, inclusive. However, Connie really only likes nice, consistent strings. She considers a string to be consistent if and only if all of its letters are the same. Each second, Connie may choose one letter in S and replace it with a different letter. If her chosen letter is a vowel, then she may replace it with any consonant of her choice. On the other hand, if her chosen letter is a consonant, then she may replace it with any vowel of her choice. The letters A, E, I, O, and U are considered vowels, while the remaining letters of the alphabet are considered consonants. If a letter appears multiple times in S, she may only replace a single occurrence per second. Help her determine the minimum number of seconds required to change S into any consistent string. Note that S might already be consistent, in which case seconds would be required. Constraints T S A Si Z The sum of S across all test cases is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of birthdays Connie has had. For each birthday, there is a single line containing the string S. Output For the ith string, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum number of seconds required to change S into any consistent string. Sample Explanation In the first case, Connie could replace the second and third letters B and C each with A, yielding the string AAA in seconds. In the second case, F is already consistent. In the third case, Connie could replace the first, third, and fifth letters B, N, and N each with A, yielding the string AAAAAA in seconds.# Consistency Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercupqualificationroundproblemsA. The solution to either chapter may help with solving the other, so please consider reading both first. Connie received a string S for her birthday, consisting entirely of uppercase letters each between A and Z, inclusive. However, Connie really only likes nice, consistent strings. She considers a string to be consistent if and only if all of its letters are the same. Each second, Connie may choose one letter in S and replace it with a different letter. There are K different types of replacements she may make, with the ith one involving choosing letter Ai anywhere in S and replacing it with letter Bi. No type of replacement ordered pair of Ai and Bi is given twice. There is no limit on how many times she may end up using each type of replacement. If a letter appears multiple times in S, she may only replace a single occurrence per second. Help her determine the minimum number of seconds required to change S into any consistent string, if possible. If its impossible to ever do so, output instead. Note that S might already be consistent, in which case seconds would be required. Constraints T S K A Si, Ai, Bi Z Ai Bi The sum of S across all test cases is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of birthdays Connie has had. For each birthday, there is one line containing the string S, then another line containing the integer K, then K more lines, the ith of which contains the two characters Ai and Bi. Output For the ith string, print a line containing Case i followed by the minimum number of seconds required to change S into any consistent string, or if its impossible to do so. Sample Explanation In the first case, Connie could replace the second and third letters B and C each with A, yielding the string AAA in seconds. In the second case, Connie cannot apply either available type of replacement to ABC, meaning that she cannot change it into a consistent string. In the third case, F is already consistent. In the fourth case, Connie could replace the first, third, and fifth letters B, N, and N each with A, yielding the string AAAAAA in seconds. In the sixth case, Connie could change FOXEN into the string WWWWW in seconds. Note that she may apply a sequence of multiple replacements to any of the letters in S.# Gold Mine Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercupqualificationroundproblemsC. The solution to either chapter may help with solving the other, so please consider reading both first. Just like logginghttpswww.youtube.comwatchvAheBqBkiQ, mining is a key industry in Canadas primary sector. Prospectors use geological tools to find ore deposits, then drill, and blasthttpswww.youtube.comwatchvzPbYIXGgts to excavate a system of underground tunnels for access to the ores. Minerva is a contract miner who spends her days extracting gold ore from underground mines across Ontario. One particular gold mine shes contracting for consists of N underground caves, numbered from to N, with cave having an exit to the surface. There are also N tunnels running among the caves, the ith of which allows one to travel in either direction between caves Ai and Bi. Each cave is reachable from cave by a sequence of these tunnels. Cave i is known to contain Ci ounces of gold ore. With her trusty dump truck, Minerva plans to drive underground starting in cave , collect as much gold ore as possible, and exit back to the surface through cave . Theres just one issue the tunnels are highly unstable, and will cave in after Minerva drives through them. Therefore, she is only able to traverse each tunnel at most once. Fortunately, the caves themselves are reinforced with pillars and will never collapse she may visit each cave any number of times though she can only collect its gold ore at most once. This safety measure may limit mobility. Thankfully, Minervas truck is also equipped to be a drill rig. As she travels through the system of caves, she may at any point use it to travel from her current cave to any other cave by drilling a new tunnel. In this chapter, the rig only has the energy to drill at most one such tunnel. Unfortunately, this new tunnel will be just as unstable as the existing ones Minerva will only dare travel through it once. Please help Minerva determine the maximum weight of gold ore that can be collected if she begins in cave , spends any amount of time exploring the mine traveling through tunnels, drilling at most one new tunnel, and collecting ore from any visited caves, and end up once again in cave . Constraints T N Ci , Ai, Bi N The sum of N across all mines is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of mines that Minerva is contracted to work. For each mine, there is first a line containing the single integer N. Then, there is a second line containing N spaceseparated integers, C.N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Output For the ith mine, output a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the maximum weight of gold ore in ounces that Minerva can collect before leaving the mine. Sample Explanation The first mine looks as follows Its possible to visit both caves collecting ounces of ore and then return to cave , for example by taking the tunnel from cave to cave and then drilling a tunnel back to cave . The second mine looks as follows Its possible to end up with the ore from all caves, for example by taking the tunnel to cave , drilling to cave , and then taking tunnels to cave followed by cave . The third mine looks as follows Its possible to end up with ounces of ore, but Minerva cannot collect all ounces while still returning to cave and only drilling one tunnel.# Gold Mine Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercupqualificationroundproblemsC. The solution to either chapter may help with solving the other, so please consider reading both first. Just like logginghttpswww.youtube.comwatchvAheBqBkiQ, mining is a key industry in Canadas primary sector. Prospectors use geological tools to find ore deposits, then drill, and blasthttpswww.youtube.comwatchvzPbYIXGgts to excavate a system of underground tunnels for access to the ores. Minerva is a contract miner who spends her days extracting gold ore from underground mines across Ontario. One particular gold mine shes contracting for consists of N underground caves, numbered from to N, with cave having an exit to the surface. There are also N tunnels running among the caves, the ith of which allows one to travel in either direction between caves Ai and Bi. Each cave is reachable from cave by a sequence of these tunnels. Cave i is known to contain Ci ounces of gold ore. With her trusty dump truck, Minerva plans to drive underground starting in cave , collect as much gold ore as possible, and exit back to the surface through cave . Theres just one issue the tunnels are highly unstable, and will cave in after Minerva drives through them. Therefore, she is only able to traverse each tunnel at most once. Fortunately, the caves themselves are reinforced with pillars and will never collapse she may visit each cave any number of times though she can only collect its gold ore at most once. This safety measure may limit mobility. Thankfully, Minervas truck is also equipped to be a drill rig. As she travels through the system of caves, she may at any point use it to travel from her current cave to any other cave by drilling a new tunnel. In this chapter, the rig only has the energy to drill at most K such tunnels. Unfortunately, these new tunnels will be just as unstable as the existing ones Minerva will only dare travel through each new tunnel once. Please help Minerva determine the maximum weight of gold ore that can be collected if she begins in cave , spends any amount of time exploring the mine traveling through tunnels, drilling at most K new tunnels, and collecting ore from any visited caves, and end up once again in cave . Constraints T N K Ci , Ai, Bi N The sum of N across all mines is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of mines that Minerva is contracted to work. For each mine, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and K. Then, there is a second line containing N spaceseparated integers, C.N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Output For the ith mine, output a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the maximum weight of gold ore in ounces that Minerva can collect before leaving the mine. Sample Explanation The first mine looks as follows Its possible to visit both caves collecting ounces of ore and then return to cave , for example by taking the tunnel from cave to cave and then drilling a tunnel back to cave . In the second mine, the system of caves is the same, but with no ability to drill, Minerva cannot afford to travel to cave as she would become stuck there and must settle for only collecting ounces of ore from cave . The third mine looks as follows Its possible to end up with ounces of ore, but Minerva cannot collect all ounces while still returning to cave and only drilling one tunnel. In the fourth mine, the system of caves is the same, but with the ability to drill twice, Minerva can collect ore from all caves. For example, she can take the tunnel to cave , drill to travel to cave , drill again to travel to cave , and finally take the tunnel back to cave .# Xs and Os Youre playing a game against an opponent on a grid of cells with N rows and N columns. All of the cells are initially empty, and both players normally take turns placing symbols in empty cells with one player placing Xs and the other placing Os until a row andor column becomes entirely filled with one players symbols at which point the game ends with that player winning or all of the cells have been filled without either player winning in which case the game ends in a draw. Note that a player filling an entire diagonal with their symbols does not cause them to win. This particular game is in the process of being played, with you placing Xs and your opponent placing Os. The current state of the cell in the ith row from the top and jth column from the left is one of the following If Ci,j ., the cell is still empty If Ci,j X, an X has been placed in the cell Otherwise, if Ci,j O, an O has been placed in the cell In the games current state, both players have made an equal number of turns in other words, the number of Xs is the same as the number of Os, neither player has won yet, and the game has not yet ended in a draw meaning that at least one cell is still empty. Your opponent has just turned their back, giving you the opportunity to immediately place as many additional Xs on the board as youd like, in any set of empty cells. Determine the minimum number of additional Xs you must place such that placing them would cause you to immediately win due to a row andor a column becoming entirely filled with Xs, if this is possible at all. If it is possible, you should also determine the number of different sets of cells in which that minimum number of Xs could be placed. Two sets of cells are considered to be different if either of them includes at least one cell which the other doesnt. Constraints T N Ci,j ., X, O The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of games you play against your opponent. For each game, there is first a line containing the integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the N characters Ci,.N. Output For the ith game, print a line containing Case i follow by Impossible if you cannot immediately win, or two integers if you can the minimum number of additional Xs you must place to do so, and the number of different sets of cells in which that minimum number of Xs could be placed. Sample Explanation In the first case, theres one way to place just additional X and win. You can place it in the bottomleft corner thus filling the entire left column XO X. In the second case, there are two possible ways to place additional X and win X. XX XO .O In the third case, youll need to place Xs to win, and you could choose any of the following sets of cells to place them in XXX . . X. .X. .X . XXX . X. .X. .X . . XXX X. .X. .X In the fourth case, you could place additional Xs to form either of the following configurations XOX .OX X. XXX X.O .O In the sixth case, even if you place Xs in all remaining empty cells, you cannot win.# Blockchain After running tests on samples of ore, mining engineers must plot out the economics of extraction, transportation, and treatment in long range termshttpsyoutu.bezPbYIXGgts. Feasibility reports are then drafted for executive decision. In a given Ontario town, all the extracted ore is shipped using the towns transportation network, known as its Bulk Transportation Chain BTC. The BTC is a network of N ore processing plants, numbered from to N, with N roads running amongst them. The ith road allows ore to be shipped in either direction between plants Ai and Bi, and has the capacity for at most Ci kilograms of ore to be shipped through it per minute. It is possible to reach any plant from any other plant by following a sequence of roads. The shipping capacity for an unordered pair of processing plants is the maximum weight of ore that may be shipped between them in either direction per minute. This is equal to the minimum capacity of any road on the shortest sequence of roads connecting them such a sequence is unique per pair of plants. Mining is a dirty business, and not just among bluecollar workers. Executives of a new mining project are plotting to sabotage their rival companys presence in a given town by disrupting its transportation operations. They hope to blockade a single one of the N roads within the towns BTC network, preventing any ore from being shipped along it and therefore reducing its capacity to . They would like to negatively impact the shipping capacities between various pairs of processing plants as much as possible, but have yet to decide which road would best accomplish their goal, so theyll consider each of them in turn. Let Si be the sum of shipping capacities, in kilograms, across all NN unordered pairs of processing plants if the ith road were to be blockaded. In order to reduce the size of the output, you must calculate a single integer the product of S.N. As this product may be very large, you should only compute its value modulo ,. Constraints T N , Ai, Bi N Ci The sum of N across all towns is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of towns that the execs are scoping out. For each town, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, N lines will follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai, Bi, and Ci. Output For the ith town, output a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the product of S.N, modulo ,. Sample Explanation In the first town, the BTC network looks as follows If the single road were blockaded with its capacity reduced to , the shipping capacity between plants and would become . Therefore, S , and the final answer is . In the second town, the BTC network looks as follows If the first road were blockaded, the shipping capacity between plants and would be , with the shipping capacities for other pairs of plants plants and , and plants and reduced to . If the second road were blockaded, there would instead just be a shipping capacity of between plants and . Therefore, S , and the answer is modulo , . In the third town, the BTC network looks as follows If the first road between plants and were blockaded, there would be a shipping capacity of between plants and , and a shipping capacity of between plants and as well as between plants and . Therefore, S . Overall, S , , and the answer is modulo ,. In the fourth town, S , , . In the fifth town, S , , , .# Traffic Control In the rapidly growing towns of Silicon Valley, traffic congestion is becoming a major problem. The governor has contracted Travis, the rock star traffic engineer, to come up with some solutions. A town consists of N horizontal streets and M vertical avenues, making up NM intersections. Each intersection has some wait time, which is an integer number of seconds between and , inclusive. The towns wait times can thus be represented as a grid with N rows and M columns of integers. A route within the grid consists of a sequence of one or more intersections, such that each pair of consecutive intersections are either horizontally or vertically adjacent to one another. The duration of a route is the sum of all of its intersections wait times. Travis is tasked with assigning valid wait times for all NM intersections. However, he must be careful in his choices. Routes too slow will lead to congestion, and routes too fast will lead to accidents. After careful calculations, Travis has determined that that an optimal grid must simultaneously satisfy the following two benchmark conditions based off the four corners of the town . The duration of the fastest route starting in the topleft intersection and ending in the bottomright one is exactly A seconds, and . the duration of the fastest route starting in the topright intersection and ending in the bottomleft one is exactly B seconds. Please help Travis generate any such valid grid, or determine that no such grid exists. Constraints T N, M A, B The sum of NM across all towns is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of towns that Travis is contracted for. For each town, there is a single line containing the spaceseparated integers N, M, A, and B. Output For the ith town, first print a line containing Case i followed by either the string Possible or Impossible. If possible, this should be followed N rows of M spaceseparated integers each, comprising your chosen grid of intersection wait times in seconds. Sample Explanation In the first town, the following is one possible grid for which the minimum durations of routes from the topleft to the bottomright intersection, as well as from the topright to the bottomleft intersection, are each equal to seconds as required In the second town, the following is one possible grid satisfying the requirements For example, the fastest route from the topleft to the bottomright intersection involves moving right, then right, then down, for a total duration of seconds. Meanwhile, the fastest route from the topright to the bottomleft intersection has a duration of seconds. For each of the first towns, other outputs would also be accepted.# Weak Typing Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapters httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA and httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA. The solution to any chapter may help with solving the others, so please consider reading all of them first. Timmy the toddler is training to be a top typist. His teacher has assigned some homework in the form of a list of T string exercises to be typed, consisting of only the uppercase letters F, O, and X. Timmy is eating a popsicle on a hot summer afternoon, but still hopes to complete his homework. He would like to hold the popsicle with one hand, and type with the other. Unfortunately, Timmy is still a growing boy, and each of his hands is a tad too small to reach all the way across the keyboard. He can only reach the letters F and X with his left hand, and the letters F and O with his right. Consider a string W which Timmy must type. Timmy may start typing with any hand of his choice with the other holding the popsicle. He must then switch hands as necessary to type out the W letters in order, ending on any hand of his choice. Given an exercise string W of length N, let FW be the minimum number of times Timmy must switch hands to type W. Please help Timmy compute the value of FW. Constraints T N , Each string consists only of the letters F, O, and X. The sum of N across all exercises is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of exercises that Timmy has been assigned. For each exercise, there is first a line containing the single integer N, followed by a second line containing the string W of length N. Output For the ith exercise, output a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, FW. Sample Explanation In the first exercise, if Timmy begins with his right hand, he can type the single letter O without needing to switch to his left hand. In the second exercise, if Timmy begins with his left hand, he can type all of the strings letters in order with hand switch for example, by switching to his right hand after typing the st letter. In the third exercise, Timmy can type the entire string with his right hand. In the fourth exercise, its possible for Timmy to type the string while only switching hands twice.# Weak Typing Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapters httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA and httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA. The solution to any chapter may help with solving the others, so please consider reading all of them first. Timmy the toddler is training to be a top typist. His teacher has assigned some homework in the form of a list of T string exercises to be typed, consisting of only the uppercase letters F, O, and X. Timmy is eating a popsicle on a hot summer afternoon, but still hopes to complete his homework. He would like to hold the popsicle with one hand, and type with the other. Unfortunately, Timmy is still a growing boy, and each of his hands is a tad too small to reach all the way across the keyboard. He can only reach the letters F and X with his left hand, and the letters F and O with his right. Consider a string W which Timmy must type. Timmy may start typing with any hand of his choice with the other holding the popsicle. He must then switch hands as necessary to type out the W letters in order, ending on any hand of his choice. Let FW be the minimum number of times Timmy must switch hands to type such a string W. Given an exercise string S of length N, let GS be the sum of FW over all substrings W of S. Note that there are NN such substrings. Please help Timmy compute the value of GS modulo ,. Constraints T N , Each string consists only of the letters F, O, and X. The sum of N across all exercises is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of exercises that Timmy has been assigned. For each exercise, there is first a line containing the single integer N, followed by a second line containing the string S of length N. Output For the ith exercise, output a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, GS modulo ,. Sample Explanation In the first exercise, the only substring of O is O itself. FO , as if Timmy begins with his right hand, he can type O without needing to switch to his left hand. The answer is therefore modulo , . In the second exercise, there are substrings to consider X, F, O, XF, FO, and XFO. F has a value of when evaluated on any of the first of these, while FXFO , as if Timmy begins with his left hand, he can type all letters in order with hand switch for example, by switching to his right hand after typing the first letter. The answer is therefore modulo , . In the third exercise, F has a value of when evaluated on any of the substrings of FFOFF, as Timmy can type each of them using only his right hand. In the fourth exercise, F has a value of for of the substrings of S, a value of for another of them, and a value of for the remaining of them. The answer is therefore modulo , .# Weak Typing Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapters httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA and httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA. The solution to any chapter may help with solving the others, so please consider reading all of them first. Timmy the toddler is training to be a top typist. His teacher has assigned some homework in the form of a list of T string exercises to be typed, consisting of only the uppercase letters F, O, and X. Timmy is eating a popsicle on a hot summer afternoon, but still hopes to complete his homework. He would like to hold the popsicle with one hand, and type with the other. Unfortunately, Timmy is still a growing boy, and each of his hands is a tad too small to reach all the way across the keyboard. He can only reach the letters F and X with his left hand, and the letters F and O with his right. Consider a string W which Timmy must type. Timmy may start typing with any hand of his choice with the other holding the popsicle. He must then switch hands as necessary to type out the W letters in order, ending on any hand of his choice. Let FW be the minimum number of times Timmy must switch hands to type such a string W. Because Timmys teacher would like to assign longer strings more concisely, he has encoded each exercise in a special way, through a string U of length K, consisting of only the characters F, O, X, and . Consider a string S which is initially empty and then has K updates applied to it, one after another. The ith update is described by the character Ui If Ui is F, O, or X, then the single letter Ui is appended to the end of S. Otherwise, when Ui is ., S is duplicated, with the entire current string S being appended to the end of itself for example, if S OX, then S would become equal to OXOX after such an update. The first update is guaranteed to not be of this type. Let GS be the sum of FW over all substrings W of the final string S after all K updates have been applied to it. Note that there are SS such substrings. Please help Timmy compute the value of GS modulo ,. Constraints T K , U . Each string U consists only of the letters F, O, X, and . The sum of K across all exercises is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of exercises that Timmy has been assigned. For each exercise, there is first a line containing the single integer K, followed by a second line containing the string U of length K. Output For the ith exercise, output a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the value of GS for the final sequence S, modulo ,. Sample Explanation In the first exercise, the final string S is XFO. It has substrings to consider X, F, O, XF, FO, and XFO. F has a value of when evaluated on any of the first of these, while FXFO , as if Timmy begins with his left hand, he can type all letters in order with hand switch for example, by switching to his right hand after typing the first letter. The answer is therefore modulo , . In the second exercise, the final string S is FFFFOFFFF. F has a value of when evaluated on any of its substrings. In the third exercise, F has a value of for of the substrings of S, a value of for another of them, and a value of for the remaining of them. The answer is therefore modulo , . In the fourth exercise, the final string S is XFOFXFOFXFOFX. In the fifth exercise, the final string S consists of OOXFOX repeated times.# Chainblock After running tests on samples of ore, mining engineers must plot out the economics of extraction, transportation, and treatment in long range termshttpsyoutu.bezPbYIXGgts. Feasibility reports are then drafted for executive decision. In a given Ontario town, all the extracted ore is shipped using the towns transportation network, known as its Bulk Transportation Chain BTC. The BTC is a network of N ore processing plants, numbered from to N, with N roads running amongst them. The ith road allows ore to be shipped in either direction between plants Ai and Bi. It is possible to reach any plant from any other plant by following a sequence of roads. Mining is a dirty business, and not just among bluecollar workers. Executives of a new mining project are plotting to sabotage their rival companys presence in a given town by disrupting its transportation operations. However, in trying to actually build the blockade on the aforementioned roads, their plan was foiled. As it turns out, ore processing plants communicate with one another via radio towers. Plant i within the BTC network operates their radio towers on a frequency of Fi kilohertz, where Fi is an integer. On a given radio frequency, all of the plants will be able to communicate freely. Thus if ore transportation is disrupted between any pair of plants on the same frequency, they will notice immediately and alert their headquarters. Equipped with this new intel, the executives would like to take another crack at disrupting their rivals operations. This time, they would like to blockade as many roads as they can, while ensuring that any pair of plants on the same radio frequency can still transport ore to each other through some sequence of roads. This way, every single plant will remain ignorant to any blockaded roads. Given this restriction, what is the maximum number of roads that can be blockaded Constraints T N , Ai, Bi N Fi N The sum of N across all towns is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of towns that the execs are scoping out. For each town, there is first a line containing the single integer N. Then, N lines will follow, the ith of which contains the spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Then, there is a line with N spaceseparated integers, F.N. Output For the ith town, output a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the maximum number of roads that can be blockaded without the rival company finding out. Sample Explanation In the first town, the BTC network looks as follows Since both plants are on the same frequency, blockading the road between them would lead to the rival company finding out. The second town is similar to the first, except the plants are on different frequencies. Therefore, they would not be able to detect the blockade. In the third town, the BTC network looks as follows The fourth town is similar to the third, except that neither road may be blocked without disconnecting equalfrequency plants and . In the fifth town, at most roads may be blockaded the roads between plants and , and between plants and .# Runway TFW its Toronto Fashion Week. There are T fashion shows to be held, during which runway models will showcase the latest outfits from top designers. Dorothy the dresser has been designated the difficult duty of dressing them all A given fashion show features M models wearing a variety of outfits. Each outfit has a style, denoted by a positive integer. Before the show begins, each model i is required to arrive at the venue wearing an outfit of style Si. Then, N rounds will follow. A round consists of a lineup of the M models walking the runway in turn, each showcasing an outfit. The ordering of models can differ among different rounds lineups, but must be some permutation of the same M models each time. The show also has a predetermined program the jth outfit showcased in the ith rounds lineup must be of style Pi,j. Dorothys job is to dress all of the models backstage, in accordance to the program requirements. A models outfit may be changed into one of any other style, at any time while the model is not on the runway. Being resourceful, Dorothy came up with a small trick to make her job less hectic She can instruct each model to wear another outfit underneath the initial outfit they arrive in, making it easy for the model to change into a different style, just once, without Dorothys help. In other words, if a model needs to change n different times throughout the entire show, then Dorothy will only need to personally change the model n, times. Now, Dorothy would like to organize models for each round to minimize her own work. Can you help determine the minimum total number of times that Dorothy will need to personally change a model, while satisfying the program requirements for all N rounds Constraints T N, M , NM , Si, Pi,j The sum of NM across all test cases is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of fashion shows. For each show, there is first a line containing the spaceseparated integers N and M. Then, there is a line containing M spaceseparated integers, S.M. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains M spaceseparated integers, Pi,.M. Output For the ith fashion show, output a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the minimum number of times that Dorothy must personally change the models. Sample Explanation In the first show, there are rounds with only model. The model is initially wearing style , and the program requires styles , to be showcased in sequence. Dorothy can direct the model to arrive wearing style underneath style , so that it may be uncovered before round with no work from Dorothy herself. After the model does so and showcases style for the first two rounds, Dorothy will have to personally change the model back into style for round . In the second show, there are rounds and models. The models arrive wearing styles and , respectively. The program requires each round to showcase styles and in alternating order. The models can simply alternate positions from round to round, requiring no work from Dorothy. In the third show, the two models arrive wearing styles and , respectively, but other different styles then need to be showcased by each model. Each model can change into more style by wearing it underneath their initial outfit, but Dorothy will have to personally change them for the remaining each, for a total of . In the fourth show, one possible optimal way to organize the fashion show is as follows Initially, model wears style underneath style , model wears style underneath style , and model wears style underneath style . For round , the models go in order , . Models and already fit the program, while model changes into style independently. For round , keep the same lineup. Models and each change themselves into style , while Dorothy personally changes model into style . # String Concatenation Taylor the tailor has just finished work on millions of outfits at the request of her friend Dorothyhttpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA. Now she is left with a major cleanup job in her studio. A given room in the studio has N leftover pieces of strings scattered about, indexed from to N. The ith piece of string has a length of Li centimeters. Taylor has two spools, so she would like to concatenate these strings into two threads by fusing their ends together. She plans to concatenate several pieces of string into a first thread to be stored on her first spool, and then several other pieces into a second thread to store on her second spool. A concatenated thread has length equal to the sum of the lengths of the individual strings. Pieces of string not used in either thread will be thrown away, and obviously, any given piece of string can be used in only one of the threads. Taylor is also very particular about the cleanup process She would like her two concatenated threads to be exactly the same positive length, and She would like to throw away at most K pieces of string in total to reduce waste. Please help Taylor determine how to concatenate strings to satisfy these requirements, if possible. If there are multiple answers, any one will be accepted. Constraints T N , Li , N , K N The sum of N across all rooms is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of rooms in the studio. For each room, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers N and K. Then, there is a line containing N spaceseparated integers, L.N. Output For the ith room, output a line containing Case i followed by Possible if its possible to form two equallength threads without throwing away more than K pieces of string, or Impossible otherwise. If its possible, print two more lines of spaceseparated integers the indices of the strings in the first thread, and the indices of the strings in the second thread. Sample Explanation In the first room, one valid option for Taylor to form two equallength threads is by concatenating strings , and with a total length of ,cm in one, and just using string with length ,cm in the other. This results in strings being thrown away, which is no more than K. In the second room, no two strings have the same length, and no two strings lengths add up to the remaining strings length. Therefore, it is impossible to satisfy the requirements. In the third room, since strings and both have the same length of ,cm, one possible answer is to simply keep them and throw away the other . In the fourth room, all strings have equal length. One possible answer is to concatenate any strings in one thread, and the remaining in the other. Since we are permitted to throw away up to strings, another possible answer is to concatenate any strings in each thread and throw away the remaining . Note that we cannot keep just string per thread, as that would result in strings being thrown away, which is more than . In the fifth room, the first thread can be made of the strings with lengths ,cm and ,cm, and the second thread of strings with lengths ,cm and ,cm. Note For sample cases , , and , other outputs would also be accepted.# Valet Parking Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsC. The solution to either chapter may help with solving the other, so please consider reading both first. When not out fighting crime, Shaun works valet at the Fairmont hotel. Recently, he has been using his new weapon the ten rings to secretly help him park cars among T valetdesignated garages. The layout of a garage is a grid G of R rows numbered from to R from top to bottom and C columns numbered from to C from left to right of parking spaces. Initially, each space in row i and column j contains a car if Gi,j X, or is otherwise empty if Gi,j . Shaun has been tasked to clear out a path for easy garage access, requiring cars to be rearranged such that a certain row K contains no cars in any of its C spaces. To that end, the magic of the ten rings supports the following types of moves . Levitate any car out of the garage and onto the street, leaving its space empty and the position of all other cars unchanged. . Shift all the cars in the garage upwards. For each car in the garage, it moves from its current parking space to the space just above it, unless theres either no such space due to the car being in row or that space is occupied by a car which is remaining stationary, in which case this car itself remains stationary. . Shift all the cars in the garage downwards similarly to . For example, a sequence of two moves of type is illustrated below X. XXX XXX .XX .X XXX .X XXX .X XXX . . Please help Shaun determine the minimum number of moves required to clear all the spaces in row K. Constraints T R, C , R C , K R Gi,j ., X The sum of RC across all garages is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of garages in which Shaun must clear a path. For each garage, there is first a line containing spaceseparated integers R, C, and K. Then, R lines follow, the ith of which contains the C characters Gi,.C. Output For the ith garage, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the minimum number of moves required to clear row K. Sample Explanation In the first garage, there is a single occupied space which must be cleared. Shaun can simply execute a move of type to clear it. In the second garage, row is already cleared as required, so no moves are needed. In the third garage, one optimal strategy is for Shaun to use a move of type to remove the car in row and column , followed by a move of type to shift all cars downwards, resulting in the following valid arrangement . XXX XXX In the fourth garage, one optimal strategy is for Shaun to use a single move of type , resulting in the following valid arrangement XXX .X XXX . # Valet Parking Chapter Note This problem shares similarities with Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsC. The solution to either chapter may help with solving the other, so please consider reading both first. When not out fighting crime, Shaun works valet at the Fairmont hotel. Recently, he has been using his new weapon the ten rings to secretly help him park cars among T valetdesignated garages. The layout of a garage is a grid G of R rows numbered from to R from top to bottom and C columns numbered from to C from left to right of parking spaces. Initially, each space in row i and column j contains a car if Gi,j X, or is otherwise empty if Gi,j . Shauns friend, Master sorcerer Wong, has been interfering on his shift today. Wong will cast a sequence of S spells, numbered from to S. The ith spell will change whether the space at row Ai and column Bi contains a car. If that space is empty, Wong will open a portal and teleport a car into the space, whereas if the space already contains a car, Wong will teleport the car away, leaving an empty space. After each spell, Shaun would like to consider the task of clearing out a path for easy garage access, requiring cars to be rearranged such that a certain row K contains no cars in any of its C spaces. To that end, the magic of the ten rings supports the following types of moves . Levitate any car out of the garage and onto the street, leaving its space empty and the position of all other cars unchanged. . Shift all the cars in the garage upwards. For each car in the garage, it moves from its current parking space to the space just above it, unless theres either no such space due to the car being in row or that space is occupied by a car which is remaining stationary, in which case this car itself remains stationary. . Shift all the cars in the garage downwards similarly to . For example, a sequence of two moves of type is illustrated below X. XXX XXX .XX .X XXX .X XXX .X XXX . . Note that while Shaun must strategize a sequence of moves after each spell, he never carries them out leaving only Wongs spells to make actual changes to the garage. Let Mi be the minimum number of moves which would theoretically be required to leave row K empty starting from the state of the garage after the first i spells have been cast. Please help Shaun compute the sum M M . MS. Constraints T R, C , RC , K R S , Gi,j ., X Ai R Bi C The sum of RC S across all garages is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of garages in which Shaun must consider clearing a path. For each garage, there is first a line containing spaceseparated integers R, C, K, and S. Then, R lines follow, the ith of which contains the C characters Gi,.C. Finally, S lines follow, the ith of which contains spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Output For the ith garage, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the sum M M . MS. Sample Explanation In the first garage, there is a single occupied space. Wongs first spell removes the car, after which the row is already cleared i.e. M . After Wongs second spell refills the space, it would take a move of type to clear the row M . The answer is thus . The second garage looks as follows after Wongs single spell, in which row is already cleared and no moves are required XXX . XXX The third garage looks as follows after Wongs single spell XXX .X. XXX One optimal strategy is for Shaun to use a move of type to remove the car in row and column , followed by a move of type to shift all cars downwards, resulting in the following valid arrangement . XXX XXX For the fourth garage, M , , , and so the answer is . For the sixth garage, M , , .# Authoreization Facebulk Inc. is a mining company whose Bulk Geological Processing BGP network has been disrupted lately. To ensure that buildings are more accessible in future outages, the company has hired emergency response agents for testing across each of its T oreprocessing plants. A given plant consists of N rooms arranged in a grid of N rows and columns. The room in the ith row from the top and the jth column from the left can be referred to as room i, j. Each room i, j has an authorization level of Ai,j, meaning that only agents with authorization levels Ai,j or greater may enter it. M agents have been tasked to independently navigate the grid. The ith agent, who has an authorization level of Li, begins in room Ri, Ci and would like to reach a different room Ri, Ci. Its guaranteed that they are authorized to be in both of those rooms that is, Li ARi,Ci and Li ARi,Ci. The agent may make one or more moves, each consisting of moving to an adjacent room that theyre also authorized to enter. Two rooms i, j and i, j are considered to be adjacent if they share a wall that is, if i i j j . Let Di equal the minimum number of moves required for the ith agent to travel from room Ri, Ci to room Ri, Ci, with Di considered to equal if the ith agent cannot complete their trip at all. Please help Facebulk evaluate the emergency accessibility of its buildings by computing the product of D.M. As this product may be very large, you should compute its value modulo ,. Constraints T N, M , Ai,j Ri, Ri N Ci, Ci Li The sum of NM across all plants is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of oreprocessing plants. For each plant, there is first a line containing spaceseparated integers, N and M. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains spaceseparated integers, Ai,. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains spaceseparated integers, Ri, Ci, Ri, Ci, and Li. Output For the ith plant, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the product of D.M as defined above, modulo ,. Sample Explanation In the first plant, the first agent cannot reach room , from room , as theyre not authorized to enter room , . On the other hand, the second agent can move into room , and then into room , taking a total of moves. Therefore, D impossible, and so the answer is mod , . In the second plant, the first agents shortest route is through rooms , , . Meanwhile, , , , is the second agents shortest route. Overall, D , , impossible, , and so the answer is mod , . In the third plant, D . In the fourth plant, D , impossible, , , , , , .# Exploreation Chapter Note Chapters httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsD and httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsD are strictly more difficult versions of this problem, with differences highlighted in bold. Solutions to later chapters can be directly applied to solve earlier ones. Facebulk Inc. is a mining company who just released its latest performance reports. Backed by strong earnings, the company is now seeking to grow its infrastructure by surveying ore samples across T new sites using its patented robotics tech. A given site has been excavated after much drilling and blasting, forming a rectangular pit thats R rows long numbered from to R by C columns wide numbered from to C by cm deep. The pit consists of a grid of RC platforms, where the platform at row i and column j denoted as platform i, j is at height Hi,j cm from the bottom of the pit. Unfortunately, theres a forecast of heavy rain rainwater is about to start slowly flooding the pit. The water level is initially at height , and will eventually fill up the entire pit at height cm. Your supervisor wants RC ore samples to be collected and analyzed, one from each platform, based on the following humidity requirements the sample from platform i, j is only worthwhile if collected at some point while the water level is strictly between Si,j and Si,j cm. In an attempt to accomplish this, youll dispatch or more remotecontrol robots before it starts to rain, each at an initial platform of your choice. Multiple robots may occupy the same platform. At any point in time, you can command any robot at some platform i, j to move to an adjacent platform any platform i, j such that ii jj , or to collect an ore sample from its current platform. Rainwater will flood slowly enough that the robots have time to execute an arbitrary number of commands before water increases from any height of x to x cm. If a robot is ever on platform i, j while the water level is greater than or equal to Hi,j either because the robot moved to that platform or because the water level increased while the robot was present on it, the robot will short circuit and stop executing any more commands. Let X be the maximum number of desired ore samples which can be collected, and let Y be the minimum number of robots which must be dispatched to collect that many samples. Please compute X and Y. Constraints T R, C , RC , Hi,j Si,j The sum of RC across all sites is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of sites to be surveyed. For each site, there is first a line containing spaceseparated integers, R and C. Then, R lines follow, the ith of which consists of C spaceseparated integers, Hi,.C. Then, another R lines follow, the ith of which consists of C spaceseparated integers Si,.C. Output For the ith site, print a line containing Case i followed by spaceseparated integers, the maximum number of desired ore samples which can be collected, and the minimum number of robots which must be dispatched to collect that many samples. Sample Explanation At the first site, if you dispatch a single robot at platform , it can wait there until the water level exceeds cm, collect an ore sample from platform , move to platform , wait until the water level exceeds cm, and finally collect an ore sample from platform , . No matter how many robots are dispatched, they cannot collect an ore sample from platform , after the water level exceeds cm as the platform would already be flooded, meaning that robot collecting samples is the best that can be done. At the second site, a single robot dispatched anywhere can move around and collect samples from all platforms before the water level reaches cm. At the third site, no samples can be collected before all platforms get flooded. At the fourth site, samples at platforms , and , but not by a single robot.# Exploreation Chapter Note Chapters httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsD and httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsD are strictly less and more difficult versions of this problem, respectively, with differences in bold. Solutions to later chapters can be directly applied to solve earlier ones. Facebulk Inc. is a mining company who just released its latest performance reports. Backed by strong earnings, the company is now seeking to grow its infrastructure by surveying ore samples across T new sites using its patented robotics tech. A given site has been excavated after much drilling and blasting, forming a rectangular pit thats R rows long numbered from to R by C columns wide numbered from to C by cm deep. The pit consists of a grid of RC platforms, where the platform at row i and column j denoted as platform i, j is at height Hi,j cm from the bottom of the pit. Unfortunately, theres a forecast of heavy rain rainwater is about to start slowly flooding the pit. The water level is initially at height , and will eventually fill up the entire pit at height cm. Your supervisor wants RC ore samples to be collected and analyzed, one from each platform, based on the following humidity requirements the sample from platform i, j is only worthwhile if collected at some point while the water level is strictly between Si,j and Si,j cm. In an attempt to accomplish this, youll dispatch or more remotecontrol robots before it starts to rain, each at an initial platform of your choice. Multiple robots may occupy the same platform. At any point in time, you can command any robot at some platform i, j to move to an adjacent platform any platform i, j such that ii jj , or to collect an ore sample from its current platform. Rainwater will flood slowly enough that the robots have time to execute an arbitrary number of commands before water increases from any height of x to x cm. If a robot is ever on platform i, j while the water level is greater than or equal to Hi,j either because the robot moved to that platform or because the water level increased while the robot was present on it, the robot will short circuit and stop executing any more commands. To make matters more complicated, before you get to start implementing any plan, your supervisor will keep changing their mind about what samples are worthwhile. Theyll change their mind K times, such that the ith time, theyll decide that SAi,Bi will henceforth actually be equal to Ui until they potentially change their mind about it again. Considering the situation after your supervisor has changed their mind the first i times, let Xi be the maximum number of desired ore samples which could theoretically be collected, and let Yi be the minimum number of robots which must theoretically be dispatched to collect that many samples. Please compute the sum of X.K and the sum of Y.K. Constraints T R, C , RC , Hi,j , Si,j , K , Ai R Bi C Ui , The sum of RC K across all sites is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of sites to be surveyed. For each site, there is first a line containing spaceseparated integers, R and C. Then, R lines follow, the ith of which consists of C spaceseparated integers, Hi,.C. Then, another R lines follow, the ith of which consists of C spaceseparated integers Si,.C. Then, a line will follow containing the single integer K. Then, K lines will follow, the ith of which contains spaceseparated integers, Ai, Bi, and Ui. Output For the ith site, print a line containing Case i followed by spaceseparated integers, the sum of X.K, and the sum of Y.K. Sample Explanation At the first site, S, will immediately get changed to . If you were to then dispatch a single robot at platform , it could wait there until the water level exceeds cm, collect an ore sample from platform , move to platform , wait until the water level exceeds cm, and finally collect an ore sample from platform , . No matter how many robots were to be dispatched, they could not collect an ore sample from platform , after the water level exceeds cm as the platform would already be flooded, meaning that robot collecting samples is the best that can be done. Therefore, X and Y . At the second site, once S, gets changed to , the ore sample at platform , would be possible to collect by a single robot. Once S, gets changed to , the ore sample would no longer be possible to collect. And once it gets changed back to , the sample would once again be possible to collect. Therefore, X , and Y , , and the sums of X.K and of Y.K are both equal to . At the third site, a single robot dispatched anywhere would be able to move around and collect samples from all platforms before the water level reaches cm therefore, X and Y . At the fourth site, no samples can be collected before all platforms get flooded therefore, X and Y . At the fifth site, once S, gets changed to , samples at platforms , and , would be possible to be collect, though not by a single robot therefore, X Y . Overall, X , , and Y , , . At the sixth site X , , , , , Y , , , , , # Exploreation Chapter Note Chapters httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsD and httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsD are strictly less difficult versions of this problem, with differences in bold. Solutions to later chapters can be directly applied to solve earlier ones. Facebulk Inc. is a mining company who just released its latest performance reports. Backed by strong earnings, the company is now seeking to grow its infrastructure by surveying ore samples across T new sites using its patented robotics tech. A given site has been excavated after much drilling and blasting, forming a rectangular pit thats R rows long numbered from to R by C columns wide numbered from to C by cm deep. The pit consists of a grid of RC platforms, where the platform at row i and column j denoted as platform i, j is at height Hi,j cm from the bottom of the pit. Unfortunately, theres a forecast of heavy rain rainwater is about to start slowly flooding the pit. The water level is initially at height , and will eventually fill up the entire pit at height cm. Your supervisor wants RC ore samples to be collected and analyzed, one from each platform, based on the following humidity requirements the sample from platform i, j is only worthwhile if collected at some point while the water level is strictly between Si,j and Si,j cm. In an attempt to accomplish this, youll dispatch or more remotecontrol robots before it starts to rain, each at an initial platform of your choice. Multiple robots may occupy the same platform. At any point in time, you can command any robot at some platform i, j to move to an adjacent platform any platform i, j such that ii jj , or to collect an ore sample from its current platform. Rainwater will flood slowly enough that the robots have time to execute an arbitrary number of commands before water increases from any height of x to x cm. If a robot is ever on platform i, j while the water level is greater than or equal to Hi,j either because the robot moved to that platform or because the water level increased while the robot was present on it, the robot will short circuit and stop executing any more commands. To make matters more complicated, before you get to start implementing any plan, your supervisor will keep changing their mind about what samples are worthwhile. Theyll change their mind K times, such that the ith time, theyll decide that SAi,Bi will henceforth actually be equal to Ui until they potentially change their mind about it again. Considering the situation after your supervisor has changed their mind the first i times, let Xi be the maximum number of desired ore samples which could theoretically be collected, and let Yi be the minimum number of robots which must theoretically be dispatched to collect that many samples. Please compute the sum of X.K and the sum of Y.K. Your supervisor insists that you finish assessing the ith situation and computing Xi and Yi before they tell you how theyve changed their mind for the ith time. To that end, you will not be given A.K, B.K, and U.K directly youll instead be given different sequences of values A.K, B.K, and U.K. Given A A, B B, and U U, for each i you must compute Ai Ai Yi, Bi Bi Yi, and Ui Ui Yi for yourself where is the bitwise xor operator, in many programming languages. Constraints T R, C , RC , Hi,j , Si,j , K , Ai R Bi C Ui , Ai, Bi, Ui , The sum of RC K across all sites is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of sites to be surveyed. For each site, there is first a line containing spaceseparated integers, R and C. Then, R lines follow, the ith of which consists of C spaceseparated integers, Hi,.C. Then, another R lines follow, the ith of which consists of C spaceseparated integers Si,.C. Then, a line will follow containing the single integer K. Then, K lines will follow, the ith of which contains spaceseparated integers, Ai, Bi, and Ui. Output For the ith site, print a line containing Case i followed by spaceseparated integers, the sum of X.K, and the sum of Y.K. Sample Explanation At the first site, S, will immediately get changed to . If you were to then dispatch a single robot at platform , it could wait there until the water level exceeds cm, collect an ore sample from platform , move to platform , wait until the water level exceeds cm, and finally collect an ore sample from platform , . No matter how many robots were to be dispatched, they could not collect an ore sample from platform , after the water level exceeds cm as the platform would already be flooded, meaning that robot collecting samples is the best that can be done. Therefore, X and Y . At the second site, once S, gets changed to , the ore sample at platform , would be possible to collect by a single robot. Therefore X Y . In turn, A , B , and U . Once S, gets changed to , the ore sample would no longer be possible to collect. Therefore, X Y , and so A , B , and U . Once it gets changed back to , the sample would once again be possible to collect. Therefore, X Y , and the sums of X.K and of Y.K are both equal to . At the third site, a single robot dispatched anywhere would be able to move around and collect samples from all platforms before the water level reaches cm therefore, X and Y . At the fourth site, no samples can be collected before all platforms get flooded therefore, X and Y . At the fifth site, once S, gets changed to , samples at platforms , and , would be possible to be collect, though not by a single robot therefore, X and Y . Overall, X , , and Y , , , with A , , , B , , , and U , , . At the sixth site X , , , , , Y , , , , , A , , , , , B , , , , , U , , , , , Note These sample cases represent the same data as those in Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsD, just in a different format.# Perforemance Facebulk Inc. is a mining company thats about to release its latest performance report. In these trying times, accurate numbers will be crucial. As a forensic accountant, youve been hired to secretly audit employee earnings across T oreprocessing plants. A given plant has N employees. Employee is the superintendent, and has no manager. Each other employee i has a single direct manager, employee Mi Mi i. With access to the HR database, you have full knowledge of the company structure. The HR database also contains each employees individual earnings in dollars, which is possibly zero or negative if the employee lost money. However, the databases anonymization scheme prevents you from directly looking up an employees individual earnings, instead supporting the following two types of queries which may be performed as many times as you like . For a given employee i, query the sum of the earnings of all employees directly managed by employee i only allowed if there are at least K such employees . For a given employee i, query the sum of the earnings of all employees either directly or indirectly managed by employee i only allowed if there are at least K such employees Despite the indirect nature of these queries, with each result being the sum of earnings of at least K employees, you may still be able to infer some earnings of individual employees. However, youre not necessarily satisfied with that. As a proficient hacker, youve figured out how to drop employees from the HR database. Before performing any queries, you may choose to delete or more employees along with their earnings from the company structure and database. You can only delete an employee if they do not directly manage anyone still in the database at the time. Assuming you optimally decide which employees to delete and make the most of the database queries, whats the maximum possible number of employees whose earnings you can determine Constraints T N , K Mi i The sum of N across all plants is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of oreprocessing plants. For each plant, there is first a line containing spaceseparated integers, N and K. Then, there is a second line containing N spaceseparated integers M.N. Output For the ith plant, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the maximum possible number of employees whose earnings you can determine after a round of deletions. Sample Explanation In the first plant, the company structure looks as follows If you dont delete any employees, you can determine the earnings of employee as follows. If X is the result of query type for employee the sum of employee , and s earnings, and Y is the result of query type for employee the sum of employee and s earnings, then employee s earnings must then be equal to X Y. No other employees earnings can be determined. In the second plant, the company structure looks as follows One option is to delete employees , and . This yields a company structure just like the one in the first plant, with employee s earnings becoming possible to determine. Its impossible to simultaneously determine multiple employees earnings. In the third plant, the only value which may be queried is the sum of the earnings of employees , , and and only if none of them are deleted. This does not allow any individual employees earnings to be determined. # Reporeting Facebulk Inc. is a mining company whose Bulk Geological Processing BGP network has been disrupted lately. To improve response times in the event of future disruptions, the company plans to assign shift partners within each of its T oreprocessing plants. A given plant has N employees, numbered from to N in decreasing order of seniority. Initially, none of the employees are partners with one another. The company will then assign M partnerships, one by one, with the ith partnership pairing up employees Ai and Bi if they werent already. An employee can be part of multiple partnerships. An employee x can directly receive reports from an employee y if x has higher seniority than y that is, x y, or if x and y are partners, or both. An employee x can indirectly receive reports from an employee y if there exists at least one intermediate employee z such that x can directly receive reports from z, and z can directly or indirectly receive reports from y. Let Si be the number of ordered pairs of employees x, y such that employee x can directly or indirectly receive reports from employee y after the first i partnership pairings have been made. Note that Si NN. Please help Facebulk evaluate its reporting efficiency over time by computing the product of S.M. As this product may be very large, you should compute its value modulo ,. Constraints T N , M , Ai, Bi N Ai Bi The sum of N M across all plants is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of oreprocessing plants. For each plant, there is first a line containing spaceseparated integers, N and M. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains spaceseparated integers, Ai and Bi. Output For the ith plant, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the product of S.M as defined above, modulo ,. Sample Explanation In the first plant, after a partnership between employees and forms, each employee can receive reports from the other. Therefore, S , and the answer is mod , . In the second plant, after a partnership between employees and forms, employee can receive reports from employees and , employee can receive reports from employee , and employee can receive reports from employee . Therefore, S . In the third plant, S , . Each employee can receive reports from each other employee after both partnerships have been formed for example, employee can indirectly receive reports from employee through employee . Therefore, the answer is mod , . In the fourth plant, S , , . In the fifth plant, S , , .# And Andy has no time for ores, hes just here for the ANDs. Andy has N pairs of integers, with each integer given in binary as a bitstring. The ith pair consists of bitstrings Ai and Bi. No bitstring has leading zeros except for the bitstring itself. Andy may choose at most K of these pairs for swapping. For each chosen pair i, hell swap its bitstrings Ai and Bi. After all of these swaps, hell compute X as the bitwise AND of the N bitstrings A.N, and Y as the bitwise AND of the N bitstrings B.N, and finally add X and Y together. Whats the maximum sum of X Y that Andy can achieve Note that The integer value of a bitstring S is equal to S S S S . SS . The bitwise AND of a set of bitstrings S is a bitstring V such that, if leading zeros were appended to bitstrings in S until they all had the same length, then V also has that same length, with Vi equal to if and only if all bitstrings in S have a at index i. Constraints T N , K N Ai,j, Bi,j The total length of all bitstrings A.N and B.N is at most ,. The total length of all bitstrings across all test cases is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing spaceseparated integers, N and K. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains spaceseparated bitstrings, Ai and Bi. Output For the ith test case, print a line containing Case i followed by a single bitstring, the maximum achievable sum of bitstring ANDs, with no leading zeros unless the bitstring is . Sample Explanation In the first case, X , Y , and X Y ,. In the second case, no swaps are allowed, so we must have X AND and Y AND . In the third case, one option is to swap A and B. This yields X AND and Y AND . In the fourth case, one option is to swap A and B as well as A and B, resulting in X , Y , and X Y ,.# Antisocial Cole is a programmer in the coal division of Metal previously Facebulk, working across T office buildings with very pleasant coworkers and unlimited free ice cream. However, as a selfproclaimed antisocial code monkey, he still prefers to mine his own business when possible. A given office building can be represented by an axisaligned rectangle with opposite corners , and XR, YR on a D plane. Inside, there are N friendly coworkers, the ith of whom is permanently seated at position Xi, Yi, distinct from all other coworkers. Cole is currently at position XA, YA, and would like to reach the unlimited free ice cream at a different position XB, YB. Neither position is located at a coworkers seat. Please help Cole determine the closest distance hell need to get to another coworker in order to travel from XA, YA to XB, YB without leaving the building. Your answer will be accepted if it is within either or . of the right answer. Constraints T N , XR, YR , Xi, XA, XB XR Yi, YA, YB YR The sum of N across all buildings is at most ,. Input Input begins with a single integer T, the number of office buildings. For each building, there is first a line containing spaceseparated integers, XR and YR. Then, there is a line containing spaceseparated integers, XA, YA, XB, and YB. Then, there a line containing a single integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which consists of spaceseparated integers, Xi and Yi. Output For the ith building, print a line containing Case i followed by a single real number, the closest that Cole will need to get to another coworker in order to reach the free ice cream. Sample Explanation In the first building, walking directly from , to , would take Cole within just units of the coworker at , . Instead, one optimal route might involve walking upward first, then across, and then back down, as illustrated below The closest such a route gets to the coworker is units for example at coordinates , . In the second building, Coles route must begin and end at a distance of . units from the coworker at , . Its possible for Cole to get around them without getting any closer than that, for example with the following route In the third building, one optimal route for Cole might look as follows # Hire Flyers The market is hot for geological talent Hiring agents are competing to display their job flyers on street intersections across T towns. A towns streets can be represented as an infinite D grid with rows numbered by increasing integers from North to South and columns numbered by increasing integers from West to East. There are N hiring agents, numbered from to N. Agent i starts at the intersection of row Ri and column Ci, holding Pi flyers, and facing the cardinal direction Di N for North, S for South, E for East, or W for West. Each turn taken by an agent consists of the following . Post one of their own flyers at their current intersection, shredding any competing flyer that may have previously been there. . If the agent has more flyers, move to the adjacent intersection in direction Di. The agents will take turns posting one flyer at a time. Agent will take a turn, followed by agent , and so on until agent N takes a turn, at which point agent will go again if necessary. Note that there may be multiple agents occupying the same intersection at any point in time. Let Fi be the number of flyers placed by agent i which remain will unshredded at the end. Your job is to compute the sum of i Fi over all agents i. As this sum may be very large, you should only compute it modulo ,. Constraints T N , Ri, Ci , Pi , Di N, S, E, W The sum of N across all towns is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of towns. For each town, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which consists of spaceseparated integers Ri, Ci, and Pi, followed by a spaceseparated character, Di. Output For the ith town, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of i Fi over all agents i, modulo ,. Sample Explanation In the first town, the relevant portion of the grid will end up with the following flyers with . representing an intersection with no flyer, yielding an answer of mod , In the second town, the relevant portion of the grid will end up with the following flyers, yielding an answer of mod , In the third town, each of agent s turns will involve shredding the last flyer placed by agent and replacing it with her own. This will result in , intersections containing agent s flyers, for an answer of , mod , . In the fourth town, the relevant portion of the grid will end up with the following flyers # SSSSSS The mining company Facebulk Inc. has just rebranded to Metal Platforms Inc. In order to move fast with stable infrastructure, Metal has contracted the serpentine safety inspector, Solid Snake, to inspect T walls across its mine shafts. A given wall has N vertical ladders numbered from to N for Solid Snake to inspect. The wall can be represented as a D plane, with y being the lowest part of the wall, where it touches the ground. The ith ladder is positioned at xcoordinate i, with its bottom at ycoordinate Ai and its top at ycoordinate Bi. Solid Snake is initially on the ground at coordinates , and hopes to inspect as many ladders as possible, ensuring they meet Solid Snakes Strict Serpentine Safety Specifications SSSSSS, before finally returning to any position on the ground. For example, the fourth sample case is depicted below Solid Snake can perform the following actions . If hes on the ground, he can freely move left and right, and can climb onto any ladder i which touches the ground at his current xcoordinate i.e. Ai . If hes on a ladder i, he can . Inspect it if he hasnt already inspected that ladder . Freely move up and down on that ladder in other words, decrease his ycoordinate as low as Ai or increase it as high as Bi while keeping his xcoordinate equal to i . Freely move onto the ground if the ladder touches the ground i.e. Ai . Jump horizontally to any other ladder j such that Aj y Bj, where y is his current ycoordinate note that he can jump directly to any such ladder, potentially passing by and ignoring other ladders along the way Please help Solid Snake determine the maximum number of ladders that he can inspect. Furthermore, determine the minimum number of jumps required for him to inspect that many ladders and then end up back on the ground at the end. Note that Solid Snake is allowed to intermediately return to the ground before hes done with all of his ladder inspections. Constraints T N , Ai Bi , The sum of N across all walls is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of mine shaft walls to be inspected. For each wall, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which consists of spaceseparated integers, Ai and Bi. Output For the ith wall, print a line containing Case i followed by spaceseparated integers, the maximum number of ladders which Solid Snake can inspect and the minimum number of jumps required for him to do so. Sample Explanation On the first wall, Solid Snake can move along the ground to each ladder, climb onto it, inspect it, and return to the ground, all without performing any jumps. On the second wall, Solid Snake cannot climb onto or inspect any ladders. On the third wall, one possible solution is for Solid Snake to climb onto and inspect the third ladder at coordinates , move up to , jump to and inspect the second ladder at , move up to , jump to and inspect the first ladder at , and retrace his path by jumping to the second ladder, jumping to the third ladder, and finally returning to the ground. Along the way, he will have inspected all ladders while performing jumps. # Table Flipping Tabitha is tired of tricky Hacker Cup problems, and is hosting a table flipping afterparty for the finalists to let out some steam. Her party will be held with finalists distributed across T rooms. A given room has N tables numbered from to N, with one finalist at each table. Each table i is represented as an axisaligned rectangle of positive area on a D plane, with bottomleft vertex at Xi, Yi, a width of Wi, and a height of Hi. No two tables overlap intersect with positive area. Finalists will take turns flipping their tables in one of the cardinal directions by reflecting the rectangle across an edge. Table i must be flipped in direction Di U if the table is to be flipped over its upper edge, D for its lower edge, L for its left edge, or R for its right edge. Finalists must flip their tables onebyone, i.e., no two tables may be flipped at the exact same time. Every finalist knows which direction each table must be flipped, and do not wish to interfere with each other. Tabitha would like to know if there exists some permutation in which the tables can be flipped, such that at no time do any two tables overlap intersect with positive area. Constraints T N , Xi, Yi , Wi, Hi , Di U, D, L, R The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Input begins with a single integer T, the number of rooms. For each room, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains spaceseparated integers, Xi, Yi, Wi, and Hi, followed by a spaceseparated character Di. Output For the ith room, print a line containing Case i followed by YES if there exists a permutation of tables as described above, or NO otherwise. Sample Explanation In the first room, the two tables along with their flipping directions are arranged as follows Flipping the left table first would result in it overlapping with the right table. On the other hand, if the right table is flipped first, then the left table can be validly flipped as well, leaving the tables looking as follows In the second room, the left table is to be flipped to the right instead. No matter which order the tables are flipped in, they will overlap with one another at some point. The third room is arranged as follows No matter which order the tables are flipped in, they will touch but not overlap with one another. The fourth room is arranged as follows, and has no valid tableflipping order # Vacation Melody is planning her Christmas vacation in the Metalverse, an orerich VR experience consisting of T virtual worlds. A given world has N cities numbered from to N with N roads running between them. The ith road allows Melody to drive between cities Pi and i in either direction with Pi i. City i also contains Ci orenaments which Melody can collect as souvenirs while shes there. Melodys vacation consists of starting in any city of her choice, and then repeatedly performing either of the following actions . Drive along a road to another city, unless her previous action was to drive from that city . Teleport to any other city Melody may visit a city multiple times, but may only collect its orenaments once. She may stop her vacation at any point. Please help Melody evaluate, for each world, the minimum number of times she must teleport to collect at least K orenaments, if its possible at all. Constraints T N K Ci Pi i The sum of N across all worlds is at most ,. Input Input begins with an integer T, the number of virtual worlds to be evaluated. For each world, there is first a line containing spaceseparated integers, N and K. Then, there is a line containing N spaceseparated integers, C.N. Then, there is a line containing N spaceseparated integers, P.N. Output For the ith world, print a line containing Case i followed a single integer, the minimum number of times Melody must teleport to collect at least K orenaments, or if its impossible to do so. Sample Explanation In the first three worlds, the cities are arranged as follows In the first world, one option is to start in city , drive to city , and finally drive to city . This will yield orenaments. In the second world, one option is to start in city , drive to city , teleport to city , drive to city , and finally drive to city . This will yield orenaments.# Second Flight Note This problem has large input, so we recommend predownloading the compressed zip file. Meta Getaways is a travel agency that deals with N airports numbered .N, and M flight paths. Flight path i connects airports Ai and Bi in both directions, with two direct flights operating every morning one in each direction, and another two every evening also one in each direction. Each of these four direct flights can carry up to Ci tourists. The first sample case is depicted above, with morning and evening flights in red and blue. Peak travel season is here, and will last Q days. For each day i, determine Fi, the maximum number of tourists who could possibly fly from airport Xi to Yi. Each tourist may either fly directly or take one morning and one evening flight which share an intermediate airport. Constraints T N, M, Q , Ci Ai, Bi N Ai Bi Xi, Yi N Xi Yi All unordered pairs Ai, Bi within a given test case are distinct. The sum of Q across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing three spaceseparated integers N, M, and Q. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains three spaceseparated integers Ai, Bi, and Ci. Then, Q lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi. Output Format For the ith case, print a line containing Case i followed by Q spaceseparated integers F, ., FQ. Sample Explanation In the first case On day , we must send as many tourists from airport to airport . We can fly tourists direct in the morning and more at night. Only tourists can be flown from in the morning and in the evening despite the evening flight capacity being . Therefore, F . On day , we can fly tourists direct in the morning and evening, then fly tourists through airports . Therefore, F . F F F On day , there are no direct flights. We can fly tourists through airports , and tourists through airports for a total of F tourists. In the second case F F F F F F # Second Friend Note The only difference between this problem and problem Bhttpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercupqualificationroundproblemsB is that here, scenes are smaller and do not contain rocks. Boss Rob painted a beautiful scene on a D canvas of R rows by C columns, containing zero or more happy little trees. To make sure none of his trees are lonely, Rob would like you to add as many trees as youd like possibly to empty spaces so that each tree in the final painting has at least two tree friends, that is, two trees which are each adjacent to it directly to its north, south, east, or west. If there are multiple solutions, you may print any one of them. Constraints T R, C Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers, R and C. Then, R lines follow, each of which contains C characters, either . an empty space or a tree, representing the initial painting. Output Format For the ith case, print Case i , followed by Possible and R lines of C characters each representing the final painting if a solution exists, otherwise Impossible. Sample Explanation In the first case depicted below, we could add two tree friends to either side of the middle tree, but they themselves would each only have one tree friend. Therefore, its impossible to get two friends for each tree in the final painting. In the second case, there are no trees in the initial painting, so the condition of two friends for each tree is already satisfied. In the third case, one possible solution is depicted below. # Second Hands Sandys store has N preowned clock parts for sale, where the ith part is of style Si. The store also has two display cases, each capable of holding at most K parts. To maximize the aesthetics of Sandys secondhand second hands, shed like to put each of the N parts into one of the two cases so that neither case ends up with two different parts of the same style, and neither case has more than K parts total. Can you determine if this is possible Constraints T N, K, Si Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing spaceseparated integers, N and K. Then, there is a line containing N spaceseparated integers, S, ., SN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by YES if its possible to arrange the N parts into two cases satisfying the description above, or NO otherwise. Sample Explanation In the first test case, there are parts of styles , and , with the display cases having capacity . One solution, depicted below, is to put the first and third parts in one display case, and the second part in the other. In the second test case, there are parts of styles , , , with the display cases having capacity . One solution, depicted below, is to put the first three parts in one display case, and the last two in the other. In the third test case, there are parts, but the display cases can each only hold . Therefore, there is no solution. In the fourth test case, style will always be duplicated in some display case for any given arrangement. Therefore, there is no solution. # Second Meaning Note The only difference between this problem and problem Chttpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercupqualificationroundproblemsC is that here, the length of each output codeword may be at most . Morse code is a classic way to send messages, where each letter in an alphabet is substituted with a codeword a unique sequence of dots and dashes. However, ignoring spaces, its possible for a coded message to have multiple meanings. For example, . can be interpreted as either HACKER CUP or SEE META RENT A VAN Beyond Morse code, a general set of codewords is an unambiguous encoding if any possible sequence of dots and dashes corresponds to either zero or exactly one sequence of codewords. Given one codeword C from a set of N distinct codewords, your task is to generate another N codewords C, ., CN to yield an unambiguous encoding. It can be shown that an answer always exists. If there are multiple answers, you may print any one of them. Constraints T N The length of C is between and , inclusive. The length of each C, ., CN must be between and , inclusive. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, there is a line containing the codeword C. Output Format For the ith case, output a line containing only Case i, followed by N lines, the codewords C, ., CN, one per line. Sample Explanation In the first case, it can be shown that the codewords ., ., are an unambiguous encoding. Any sequence of dots and dashes can be interpreted if and only if it has a length thats a multiple of , and can be broken up into instances of the three length codewords. In the second case, it can be shown that the codewords , ., ., . are an unambiguous encoding. For instance, . has no possible interpretation, and . can only be interpreted as . . . In the third case, it can be shown that the codewords ., . are an unambiguous encoding. For any sequence of dots and dashes every odd group of dots followed by a dash can only be interpreted as repeated .s followed by a final . every even group of dots followed by a dash can only be interpreted as repeated .s followed by a final every group of dots not followed by a dash i.e. at the end of the sequence, is interpretable if and only if there is an even number of dots this leaves only groups of dashes, interpreted only as repeated s# Second Second Friend Note The only difference between this problem and problem Bhttpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercupqualificationroundproblemsB is that here, scenes are larger and may contain rocks. Boss Rob painted a beautiful scene on a D canvas of R rows by C columns, containing zero or more happy little trees and zero or more rocks. To make sure none of his trees are lonely, Rob would like you to add as many trees as youd like possibly to empty spaces so that each tree in the final painting has at least two tree friends, that is, two trees which are each adjacent to it directly to its north, south, east, or west. If there are multiple solutions, you may print any one of them. Constraints T R, C , Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers, R and C. Then, R lines follow, each of which contains C characters, either . an empty space, a tree, or a rock, representing the initial painting. Output Format For the ith case, print Case i , followed by Possible and R lines of C characters each representing the final painting if a solution exists, otherwise Impossible. Sample Explanation In the first case depicted below, we could add two tree friends to either side of the middle tree, but they themselves would each only have one tree friend. Therefore, its impossible to get two friends for each tree in the final painting. In the second case, there are no trees in the initial painting, so the condition of two friends for each tree is already satisfied. In the third case, one possible solution is depicted below. # Second Second Meaning Note The only difference between this problem and problem Chttpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercupqualificationroundproblemsC is that here, the length of each output codeword may be at most . Morse code is a classic way to send messages, where each letter in an alphabet is substituted with a codeword a unique sequence of dots and dashes. However, ignoring spaces, its possible for a coded message to have multiple meanings. For example, . can be interpreted as either HACKER CUP or SEE META RENT A VAN Beyond Morse code, a general set of codewords is an unambiguous encoding if any possible sequence of dots and dashes corresponds to either zero or exactly one sequence of codewords. Given one codeword C from a set of N distinct codewords, your task is to generate another N codewords C, ., CN to yield an unambiguous encoding. It can be shown that an answer always exists. If there are multiple answers, you may print any one of them. Constraints T N The length of C is between and , inclusive. The length of each C, ., CN must be between and , inclusive. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, there is a line containing the codeword C. Output Format For the ith case, output a line containing only Case i, followed by N lines, the codewords C, ., CN, one per line. Sample Explanation In the first case, it can be shown that the codewords ., ., are an unambiguous encoding. Any sequence of dots and dashes can be interpreted if and only if it has a length thats a multiple of , and can be broken up into instances of the three length codewords. In the second case, it can be shown that the codewords , ., ., . are an unambiguous encoding. For instance, . has no possible interpretation, and . can only be interpreted as . . . In the third case, it can be shown that the codewords ., . are an unambiguous encoding. For any sequence of dots and dashes every odd group of dots followed by a dash can only be interpreted as repeated .s followed by a final . every even group of dots followed by a dash can only be interpreted as repeated .s followed by a final every group of dots not followed by a dash i.e. at the end of the sequence, is interpretable if and only if there is an even number of dots this leaves only groups of dashes, interpreted only as repeated s# Consecutive Cuts Chapter Note The only difference between this chapter and chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA is that here, all card values are guaranteed to be distinct and only up to N. Lets cut to the chase. You have a deck of N faceup cards, each displaying a unique integer between and N. Cutting the deck once consists of taking a stack of between and N inclusive cards from the top and moving it to the bottom in the same order. For example, for the deck , , ordered from top to bottom, cutting cards from the top would yield , , Initially, the ith card from the top is Ai. Is it possible to cut the deck exactly K times to reorder the deck such that the ith card from the top is Bi for all i Constraints T N , K Ai, Bi N A and B are each permutations of .N. The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers N and K. Then, there is a line containing N spaceseparated integers, A, ., AN. Then, there is a line containing N spaceseparated integers, B, ., BN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by YES if its possible to cut the deck K times to change the deck from Ai to Bi, or NO otherwise. Sample Explanation In the first case, its possible to get to the new order with K cut cutting cards from the top. In the second case, its impossible to change , , to , , with any number of cuts. In the third case, its impossible for the deck to be in a different order after K cuts.# Consecutive Cuts Chapter Note The only difference between this chapter and chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA is that here, card values are not guaranteed to be distinct and can be up to . Lets cut to the chase. You have a deck of N faceup cards, each displaying a not necessarily unique integer between and . Cutting the deck once consists of taking a stack of between and N inclusive cards from the top and moving it to the bottom in the same order. For example, for the deck , , ordered from top to bottom, cutting cards from the top would yield , , Initially, the ith card from the top is Ai. Is it possible to cut the deck exactly K times to reorder the deck such that the ith card from the top is Bi for all i Constraints T N , K Ai, Bi A and B are permutations of each other. The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers N and K. Then, there is a line containing N spaceseparated integers, A, ., AN. Then, there is a line containing N spaceseparated integers, B, ., BN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by YES if its possible to cut the deck K times to change the deck from Ai to Bi, or NO otherwise. Sample Explanation In the first case, its possible to get to the new order with K cut cutting cards from the top. In the second case, its impossible to change , , to , , with any number of cuts. In the third case, its impossible for the deck to be in a different order after K cuts.# Lemonade Life Theres a famous saying about what to do when life gives you lemons. As a traveling lemonade salesman whos never been given any lemons, you sadly cant relate. You must shamefully concoct your lemonade from storebought powder with your back turned to the world, lest someone see your dirty secret. Your sales route can be mapped out on a Cartesian plane with N houses, the ith of which is at coordinates Xi, Yi. Your journey starts at house , the leftmost house, and ends at house N, the rightmost house. Along the way, you may stop at zero or more other houses to sell lemonade. You may only stop at a house h if standing at house h, there exists some direction you can face in which all other houses are strictly more behind you than they are in front of you formally, if there exists a halfplanehttpsmathworld.wolfram.comHalfPlane.htmltextAhalfDplaneisa,calledanopenhalfDplane. containing only house h, and house h is at most Euclidean distance D from the previous house you were at. Your brand image is hurt if you go too long without selling lemonade. The brand damage incurred by traveling from one house to another is the larger of K and the squared Euclidean distance between them. Formally, if your journey consists of M M N houses with the ith being house Hi H , HM N, the total brand damage is iM K, XHi XHi YHi YHi Is it possible to make the journey If so, what is the minimum possible total brand damage to do so Note that the answer may be large, but will fit in a bit integer. Constraints T N , K, D Xi, Yi , X is strictly less than all other Xi. XN is strictly greater than all other Xi. All Xi, Yi are distinct within a given test case. The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. There are at most test cases in which N ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing three spaceseparated integers N, K, and D. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi. Output Format For the ith test case, print a line containing Case i followed a single integer, the minimum total brand damage that must be incurred to make the journey, or if its impossible to do so. Sample Explanation The first three sample cases are depicted below, with the optimal paths given in blue. In the first case, going from one house to another takes at least K brand damage and must not exceed a distance of D . The total brand damage is . Note that you cannot stop at house , because there is no direction you could face from there in which your back is at least slightly facing both house , and ,. In the second case, you can stop at house , because for instance, the line y .x . contains only , and the halfplane below it contains no other houses. In the third case, you cannot stop at house , . There are no other houses within D units of your starting house, so it is not possible to reach the house at , .# Watering Well Chapter Note The only difference between this chapter and chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsB is that here, coordinates are only up to ,. Boss Rob just planted N happy little trees in his yard, which can be represented on a Cartesian plane. The ith tree is located at coordinates ti Ai, Bi. Now, hes looking for the best spot to build a well in order to provide water to them. He considers the inconvenience of a potential well location p to be the sum of the squared Euclidean distances to every tree iN ,p ti Rob wants to pick a location for his well, well. well. Help him determine the inconvenience for Q different potential well locations, X, Y, ., XQ, YQ. To reduce output size, please print the sum of inconveniences for all potential well locations, modulo ,. Constraints T N, Q , Ai, Bi, Xi, Yi , All Ai, Bi are distinct within a given test case. All Xi, Yi are distinct within a given test case. The total sum of N and Q across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Then there is a line containing a single integer Q. Then, Q lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi. Output Format For the ith test case, print a line containing Case i , followed by a single integer, the sum of inconveniences for all Q well locations, modulo ,. Sample Explanation The first two sample cases are depicted below In the first case, the total inconvenience is For the well at , the inconvenience is the sum of the squared Euclidean distance to both trees, which is . For the well at , the inconvenience is . In the second case, the total inconvenience is For the well at , the inconvenience is . For the well at , the inconvenience is . For the well at , the inconvenience is .# Watering Well Chapter Note The only difference between this chapter and chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsB is that here, coordinates may be up to . Boss Rob just planted N happy little trees in his yard, which can be represented on a Cartesian plane. The ith tree is located at coordinates ti Ai, Bi. Now, hes looking for the best spot to build a well in order to provide water to them. He considers the inconvenience of a potential well location p to be the sum of the squared Euclidean distances to every tree iN ,p ti Rob wants to pick a location for his well, well. well. Help him determine the inconvenience for Q different potential well locations, X, Y, ., XQ, YQ. To reduce output size, please print the sum of inconveniences for all potential well locations, modulo ,. Constraints T N, Q , Ai, Bi, Xi, Yi All Ai, Bi are distinct within a given test case. All Xi, Yi are distinct within a given test case. The total sum of N and Q across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Then there is a line containing a single integer Q. Then, Q lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi. Output Format For the ith test case, print a line containing Case i , followed by a single integer, the sum of inconveniences for all Q well locations, modulo ,. Sample Explanation The first two sample cases are depicted below In the first case, the total inconvenience is For the well at , the inconvenience is the sum of the squared Euclidean distance to both trees, which is . For the well at , the inconvenience is . In the second case, the total inconvenience is For the well at , the inconvenience is . For the well at , the inconvenience is . For the well at , the inconvenience is .# Balance Scale Your friend baked N batches of cookies, the first with chocolate chips, and the rest with raisins. Batch i has Ci cookies all having the same weight Wi. Cookies in different batches may have the same weight. Initially, all cookies are scattered on the table, and you hope to find a hefty one to eat with your trusty balance scale. First, you select a single cookie uniformly at random from the table and place it on the left side of the scale. Then, K times, you will select a cookie uniformly at random from the table, place it on the empty side of the scale, and throw away the lighter of the two cookies on the scale or the cookie on the left side if they both weigh the same. Determine the probability that after throwing away K cookies, the remaining cookie on the scale is a yummy chocolate chip cookie from batch . If we write this probability as a quotient of integers pq in lowest terms, then you should output this quotient modulo , in other words, output the unique integer x such that x , and p x q mod ,. Constraints T , N , K iN Ci Ci , Wi Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing twospace separated integers N and K. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Ci and Wi. Output Format For the ith test case, output a single line containing Case i followed by the unique integer x such that p x q mod ,. Sample Explanation In the first case, there are batches with cookie each. Since we only weigh K time, the only way for the last cookie to be chocolate chip is if its one of the two placed on the scale. Theres a chance of picking it for the initial cookie, and a chance of picking it for the second cookie. In either case, because its the heaviest, it will remain on the scale. Adding these independent events probabilities, we get a chance that the last cookie on the scale is chocolate chip. Here, we print , since , mod ,. The second case is the same, except we must weigh a second time. Theres a chance of picking chocolate chip the first or second times, and a chance of picking it the third time. The answer is . We print , since , mod ,. In the third case, there are batches of cookies each, where batch cookies are heavier. Since we must weigh and throw out cookies, we must have weighed a cookie from batch at least once, after which a batch cookie can never remain on the scale. Therefore the answer is . In the fourth case, there is a chance that the final cookie on the scale is chocolate chip.# Balance Sheet Metal Platforms, Inc. a.k.a. Metal, formerly a mining company, now offers a service to facilitate sheet metal sales. It has N clients, where client i wants to buy only on day Ai for Xi per sheet, and sell only on a strictly later day Bi for Yi per sheet. Client i can sell to client j if Bi Aj, and if client j is buying for a strictly higher price than what client i is selling for, i.e. if Xj Yi. If Metal facilitates the sale, they earn a profit of Xj Yi. A path is any ordered sequence of clients where each client can sell to the next. A paths profit is the total profit that Metal would make if a single sheet were theoretically sold along it. Metal would like to know the total profit across the K most profitable paths or across all distinct paths if there are fewer than K. Since this may be large, please print it modulo ,. Constraints T N, K , N K , Ai Bi Xi, Yi The sum of N over all test cases is at most ,. The sum of NK over all cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers N and K. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains four spaceseparated integers Ai, Bi, Xi, and Yi. Output Format For the ith test case, output a single line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the total profit of the K most profitable paths, modulo ,. Sample Explanation The first case is depicted below, with buy prices in green and sell prices in red. The figure on the right outlines all potential sales, along with how much profit Metal would make. The valid paths are P , with profit . P , with profit . P , , with profit . P , with profit . P , with profit . P , with profit . P , with profit . Note that sales from clients to and clients to are not possible, since the buyers prices must be strictly higher than the sellers. Since there are fewer than K paths, the answer is just the sum of profits of all paths, equal to . The second case is the same as the first, except were only interested in the top most profitable paths, so we must exclude either P or P for a total profit of . In the third case, no sales are possible, so we simply report . In the fourth case, the only possible path is , with a profit of .# Perfectly Balanced Chapter Note This is the easier version of Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA. This version involves a string, but chapter involves an array of integers that can change with updates. A string is perfectly balanced if its length is even, and the first half of the string can be shuffled to make the string a palindrome. For example, abab and dood are perfectly balanced, but racecar and doodad are not. A string is almost perfectly balanced if you can delete exactly one character from it to make it perfectly balanced. Some examples are classical, intelligent, and www. You are given a larger template string S, and Q substrings, the ith of which is SLi.Ri. For how many of these Q queries is the substring almost perfectly balanced Constraints T S Si a, ., z Q Li Ri S The sum of S across all test cases is at most ,. The sum of Q across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing a single template string S. Then, there is a line containing a single integer Q. Then, Q lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Li and Ri. Output Format For the ith test case, output a single line containing Case i , followed by a single integer the number of queries which are an almost perfectly balanced substring. Sample Explanation In the first case, the template string is singingbanana. For the first query, the substring is banan. You can delete the b to get anan then reorder the first half of the string to get naan, which is a palindrome. Thus, banan is an almost perfectly balanced substring. For the second query, the substring is anana. You can delete the second a to get anna, which is a palindrome. Thus, anana is an almost perfectly balanced substring. For the third query, the substring is ban. You cannot delete any character to get an almost perfectly balanced substring. For the fourth query, the substring is nan. You can delete the a to get nn, which is a palindrome. Thus, nan is an almost perfectly balanced substring. For singing, you can create gniing. In the second test case, the first, second, and third queries are almost perfectly balanced substrings, but the fourth is not. In the third test case, the first, second, third, and fourth queries are almost perfectly balanced substrings, but the fifth and sixth are not.# Perfectly Balanced Chapter Note This is the harder version of Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsA. This version involves an array of integers instead of a string, and the array may change with updates. An array is perfectly balanced if its length is even, and the first half of the array can be shuffled to make the array a palindrome. For example, and , are perfectly balanced, but , and , are not. An array is almost perfectly balanced if you can delete exactly one element from it to make it perfectly balanced. Some examples are , , , , , and , , . You are given a larger template array A . AN of length N, along with Q events, the ith of which is one of the following two formats Xi Yi set AXi to Yi. Li Ri check whether the subarray ALi.Ri is almost perfectly balanced. For how many type queries is the subarray almost perfectly balanced Constraints T N Ai Q Xi N Yi Li Ri N The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. The sum of Q across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, there is a line containing N spaceseparated integers A, ., AN. Then, there is a line containing a single integer Q. Then, Q lines follow, the ith of which contains three spaceseparated integers, either Xi Yi or Li Ri. Output Format For the ith test case, output a single line containing Case i , followed by a single integer the number of queries which are an almost perfectly balanced subarray. Sample Explanation In the first case, the template array is ,. For the first query, the subarray is ,. You can delete the second to get , which is a palindrome. Thus, is an almost perfectly balanced subarray. For the second query, the subarray is ,. You can delete the to get , then reorder the first half of the array to get , which is a palindrome. Thus, is an almost perfectly balanced subarray. For the third query, the subarray is ,. You cannot delete any element to get an almost perfectly balanced subarray. The next two events are updates, after which the template array is , , , . For the fourth query, the subarray is ,. You can delete any element to get , which is a palindrome. Thus, is an almost perfectly balanced subarray. The fifth, sixth, eighth, and tenth queries are also almost perfectly balanced subarrays, so the final answer is .# WorkLife Balance Chapter The only differences between this chapter and chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsD is that here, Ai , , and you may swap any two elements of Ai with a single operation. As a Metal Platforms employee, you place a high value on your worklife balance. Boss Rob has assigned you N tasks, the ith of which takes Ai minutes to finish, where Ai is either , or . You may reorder your tasks, where each operation lets you swap any two elements of A. To reflect how often task requirements change in the real world, there will be M updates made to the task completion times, with the ith update setting AXi to Yi. After completing the ith update, you would like to know if its possible to balance the time spent at work versus at home, namely if you hope to finish the first Zi tasks at work and the rest at home. Specifically, let Qi be the minimum number of swap operations which must be theoretically performed so that A . AZi AZi . AN, with Qi if its impossible. Note that its possible for Qi to be , if the subarrays already have equal sums. To reduce the size of the output, please compute the sum of Q, ., QM. Constraints T N , M , Ai, Yi , Xi N Zi N The sum of NM across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers N and M. Then, there is a line containing N digits, A, A, ., AN. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains three spaceseparated integers Xi, Yi, and Zi. Output Format For the ith test case, output Case i followed by a single integer, Q . QM. Sample Explanation The first case is depicted below We start with A , . The first update yields A, with Z . The first and second tasks are already equal, so Q as no swaps are necessary. The second update yields A, with Z . Whether or not we swap these tasks, they can never be equal, so Q . The final answer is . The second case is depicted below We start with A , , . The first update yields A, , . We need the sum of the first three tasks to equal the fourth. We can swap the third and fourth tasks to get , so Q . The second update yields A, , . We need the sum of the first two tasks to equal the sum of the last two. This is already true, so Q . The final answer is . In the third case, we start with A , , , . With the updates, we get A , , , Z , Q we can swap A and A A , , , Z , Q we can swap both s to the front A , , , Z , Q we can swap A and A A , , , Z , Q impossible The final answer is .# WorkLife Balance Chapter The only differences between this chapter and chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsD is that here, Ai , and you may only swap adjacent elements of Ai with a single operation. As a Metal Platforms employee, you place a high value on your worklife balance. Boss Rob has assigned you N tasks, the ith of which takes Ai minutes to finish, where Ai is either or . You may reorder your tasks, where each operation lets you swap any two adjacent elements of A Ai and Aj for some i and j such that i j . To reflect how often task requirements change in the real world, there will be M updates made to the task completion times, with the ith update setting AXi to Yi. After completing the ith update, you would like to know if its possible to balance the time spent at work versus at home, namely if you hope to finish the first Zi tasks at work and the rest at home. Specifically, let Qi be the minimum number of swap operations which must be theoretically performed so that A . AZi AZi . AN, with Qi if its impossible. Note that its possible for Qi to be , if the subarrays already have equal sums. To reduce the size of the output, please compute the sum of Q, ., QM. Constraints T N , M , Ai, Yi , Xi N Zi N The sum of NM across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers N and M. Then, there is a line containing N digits, A, A, ., AN. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains three spaceseparated integers Xi, Yi, and Zi. Output Format For the ith test case, output Case i followed by a single integer, Q . QM. Sample Explanation The first case is depicted below We start with A , . The first update yields A, with Z . The first and second tasks are already equal, so Q as no swaps are necessary. The second update yields A, and after the third update we still have , . In neither case can we equally split the tasks, so Q Q . The final answer is . The second case is depicted below We start with A , , . The first update yields A, , with Z . The two subarrays both sum to already, so Q . The second update yields A, , . Its impossible to split the tasks equally, so Q . The third update yields A, , with Z . We can swap the second and third tasks so that both halves of the array sum to , so Q . The final answer is . In the third case, we start with A , , , , . With the updates, we get A , , , , Z and Q move the left two s two spaces left A , , , , Z and Q move the left three s four spaces left A , , , , Z and Q A , , , , Z and Q A , , , , Z and Q swap A and A The final answer is .# First Time Chapter Note The only difference between this and Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsD is that here, you only need to find the answer for a single K. Boss Rob aint Som Tawyer, but he can paint a fence alright. Robs fence is made of N wooden stakes, numbered to N from left to right. Initially at time , the ith stake is of color i. There is a fencepost before stake and after stake N, as well as after every Kth stake starting from the left. Rob has a simple and joyful plan to repaint his fence, consisting of M moments in time. At time i, hell repaint all stakes which are color Ai to color Bi. Doing so, when would be the first time that all pairs of stakes not separated by a fencepost have the same color If it will never occur, consider the answer to be . Constraints T N, M , K N Ai, Bi N Ai Bi The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. The sum of M across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For the ith test case, there is first a line containing three spaceseparated integers N, M, and K. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Output Format For the ith test case, output a single line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the first time that the condition is satisfied, or if will never be. Sample Explanation The progressions of fences for the first two sample cases are depicted below In the first case, all stakes between fenceposts will have the same color after time . In the second case, all stakes between fenceposts will have the same color after time . In the third case, the fence progresses as follows At no point in time will all stakes between pairs of fenceposts have the same color.# First Time Chapter Note The only difference between this and Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsD is that here, you must find the sum of answers for K .N. Boss Rob aint Som Tawyer, but he can paint a fence alright. Robs fence is made of N wooden stakes, numbered to N from left to right. Initially at time , the ith stake is of color i. There is a fencepost before stake and after stake N, as well as after every Kth stake starting from the left. Rob has a simple and joyful plan to repaint his fence, consisting of M moments in time. At time i, hell repaint all stakes which are color Ai to color Bi. Doing so, when would be the first time that all pairs of stakes not separated by a fencepost have the same color If it will never occur, consider the answer to be . Rob is still on the fence about the value of K, so please print the sum of answers over K .N. Sorry for the pun we know there is a lot at stake in this round gating the finals. In our defence, it makes for good postproblem content. Constraints T N, M , Ai, Bi N Ai Bi The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. The sum of M across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For the ith test case, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers N and M. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Output Format For the ith test case, output a single line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of answers for each K .N. Sample Explanation The progressions of fences for the first two sample cases are depicted below with fenceposts depicted for K and K respectively In the first case, the answers are , , for K ., so we print . In the second case, the answers are , for K ., so we print . In the third case, the fence with fenceposts depicted for K progresses as follows For K ., the answers are , , , , so we print the sum .# Fourth Player Four friends are playing a card game with two teams of two players each. Team A consists of players A and A while team B consists of players B and B. There is a deck of N cards where N is always a multiple of , numbered from to N, with all cards visible to all players at all times. First, the cards are dealt out evenly to each player Player A has cards A, ., AN. Player B has cards B, ., BN. Player A has cards A, ., AN. Player B has cards B, ., BN. The game proceeds for N rounds. In each round, each player plays a card. Player A plays first, then player B, then player A, then player B. A player may choose to play any of their cards when its their turn. After all four players have played a card, the team who played the highest card will score point. Once a round is complete, the four played cards are removed from the game, and then the next round starts. This continues until all cards have been played. For example, the first round of the second sample case might be played as follows, with player B winning a point for team B Assuming each team plays to maximize its score, how many points will team A score Constraints T N , N is a multiple of . Each card from to N is guaranteed to exist in exactly one players hand. The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then there are lines containing the players cards Line N spaceseparated integers, A, ., AN. Line N spaceseparated integers, B, ., BN. Line N spaceseparated integers, A, ., AN. Line N spaceseparated integers, B, ., BN. Output Format For the ith test case, output a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the number of points that team A will score. Sample Explanation In the first case, one possible way the cards can be played optimally is Round , , Round , , Team A will score points, and team B can do no better by playing differently. In the second case, one possible way the cards can be played optimally is Round , , Round , , Round , , Round , , Team A will score points. In the third case, one possible way the cards can be played optimally is Round , , Round , , Round , , Round , , Team B can always prevent team A from scoring any points.# Second Mistake You, a perfect speller, have a vocabulary of N distinct words, V, ., VN, each consisting of exactly L lowercase letters from the alphabet m, e, t, a. Your friend, a truely terrable speler, has attempted to write Q of these words as W, ., WQ, each also consisting of L lowercase letters from the same alphabet. Let Si be the number of words in your vocabulary that differ from Wi at exactly two indices. Please determine the sum S . SQ. Constraints T N, Q , L Vi Wi , NQL , Vij m, e, t, a Wij m, e, t, a All Vi in a given test case are distinct. The sum of lengths of all strings across all cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the string Vi. Then, there is a line containing a single integer Q. Then, Q lines follow, the ith of which contains the string Wi. Output Format For the ith test case, output a single line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the sum S . SQ. Sample Explanation The first case is depicted below The answer is , since W teammate differs from metamate at three indices, so S . W meatmate differs from metamate at exactly two indices, so S . W metatame differs from metamate at exactly two indices, so S . W mememate differs from metamate at exactly two indices, so S . W metameme differs from metamate at exactly two indices, so S . In the second case, the answer is , since W tata differs from V meet at four indices, V emma at three indices, and V tate at only one index, so S . W maam differs from V meet at three indices, V emma at four indices, and V tate at three indices, so S . In the third case, the answer is , since W tam differs from both V mem and V mat at exactly two indices, so S . W mat differs from V mem at exactly two indices, so S . W tea differs from both V mem and V met at exactly two indices, so S .# Third Trie You have N trieshttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiTrie. The ith trie has Mi nodes and Mi edges, with node being the root, and node js parent being Pi,j, for j .Mi. Edge Pi,j j is labeled with a lowercase letter Ci,j. We say a string is in a trie if it can be formed by concatenating the letters along some path starting at the root and ending at some node either internal or leaf. For every possible unordered triplet of these N tries, you would like to know how many strings exist which are in at least one of the three tries Please print the sum of answers over all NNN possible queries. Constraints T N Mi , Pi,j j Ci,j a, z The sum of N across all cases is at most ,. No node will have two direct outgoing edges with the same edge label. There are at most , total trie nodes in a given test case. The sum of nodes across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing a single integer N, the number of tries. Then, N descriptions of tries follow. For the ith trie, there is first a line containing a single integer Mi, followed by Mi more lines, the jth of which contains the integer Pi,j, followed by a space, followed by the letter Ci,j. Output Format For the ith test case, output a single line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of the query answers across all triplets of tries. Sample Explanation In the first case, there are N tries, depicted below There is only one possible unordered triplet of tries to consider, for which there are strings in at least one trie of the triplet , a, aa, b, and c. In the second case, there are N tries, depicted below There are four triplets of tries to consider, three of which include the last trie and one of which doesnt. In the three that does, there are strings in at least one trie , a, aa, and aaa. In the one that doesnt, the are strings and a. The final answer is . In the third case, there are N tries, depicted below The four triplets and strings contributing to the answer are trie , trie , trie , a, b, c trie , trie , trie , a, b, ab, abc trie , trie , trie , a, c, ab, abc trie , trie , trie , a, b, c, ab, abc The final answer is .# Zero Crossings Chapter Note The only difference between this and Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsE is that here, marble locations dont depend on previous answers. There are N rubber bands on an infinite D peg board. The ith rubber band is initially shaped as a convex polygonhttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiConvexpolygon of Mi integer vertices, Xi, Yi, Xi,Mi, Yi,Mi in clockwise order. No two rubber bands touch or cross each other, though each rubber band may be fully enclosed in another. Other than their initial layout, all rubber bands look identical. You are given Q queries, the ith of which involves a red and blue marble shaped as a circle with radius , centered at points Ai, Bi and Ci, Di respectively. The marbles do not touch each other, or any rubber bands. Formally, Ai, Bi and Ci, Di are more than units away from each other, and each more than unit away from any rubber band. Query i asks whether you can roll the marbles and continuously movedeform rubber bands so the red marble ends up at Ci, Di, the blue marble ends up at Ai, Bi, the final state of all rubber bands looks identical to the initial state one rubber band may end up in place of another, but must end up having the exact same vertices, and rubber bands never touchcross, and the marbles never touch each other or any rubber band. For example, the first sample case and the fifth query of the second case can be solved as follows Let Ri if the answer to the ith query is yes, else Ri . Please find the sum of R, ., RQ. Constraints T N , Mi , iN Mi , Q , Xij, Yij Ai, Bi, Ci, Di The sum of Mi across all test cases is at most ,. The sum of Q across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For the ith test case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, N descriptions of polygons follow, the ith of which consists of two lines the first containing a single integer Mi and the second containing Mi spaceseparated integers Xi, Yi, Xi,Mi, Yi,Mi. Then, there is a line containing a single integer Q. Then, Q lines follow, the ith of which contains four spaceseparated integers Ai, Bi, Ci, Di. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the sum R . RQ. Sample Explanation In the first case, the only query is possible, as depicted above on the left. In the second case, R , , , . In the third case, the only query is not possible as one marble is inside the rubber band, while the other is outside. If the marbles swap places, then the rubber band will be surrounding the wrong marble.# Zero Crossings Chapter Note The only difference between this and Chapter httpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercuproundproblemsE is that here, marble locations depend on previous answers. There are N rubber bands on an infinite D peg board. The ith rubber band is initially shaped as a convex polygonhttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiConvexpolygon of Mi integer vertices, Xi, Yi, Xi,Mi, Yi,Mi in clockwise order. No two rubber bands touch or cross each other, though each rubber band may be fully enclosed in another. Other than their initial layout, all rubber bands look identical. You are given Q queries, the ith of which involves a red and blue marble shaped as a circle with radius , centered at points Ai, Bi and Ci, Di respectively. The marbles do not touch each other, or any rubber bands. Formally, Ai, Bi and Ci, Di are more than units away from each other, and each more than unit away from any rubber band. Query i asks whether you can roll the marbles and continuously movedeform rubber bands so the red marble ends up at Ci, Di, the blue marble ends up at Ai, Bi, the final state of all rubber bands looks identical to the initial state one rubber band may end up in place of another, but must end up having the exact same vertices, and rubber bands never touchcross, and the marbles never touch each other or any rubber band. For example, the first sample case and the fifth query of the second case can be solved as follows Let Ri if the answer to the ith query is yes, else Ri . Please find the sum of R, ., RQ. Youll only be given A, B, C, D directly, and must compute the remaining query points given values Ai, Bi, Ci, Di for i along with an array E.Q, as follows Ai Ai RE , RiE where is the bitwise XOR operator, with Bi, Ci, and Di computed similarly. In other words, if the answer to the ith query is yes, XOR all future query coordinates by Ei. Constraints T N , Mi , iN Mi , Q , Xij, Yij Ai, Bi, Ci, Di Ai, Bi, Ci, Di, Ei The sum of Mi across all test cases is at most ,. The sum of Q across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For the ith test case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, N descriptions of polygons follow, the ith of which consists of two lines the first containing a single integer Mi and the second containing Mi spaceseparated integers Xi, Yi, Xi,Mi, Yi,Mi. Then, there is a line containing a single integer Q. Then, Q lines follow, the ith of which contains five spaceseparated integers, either A, B, C, D, E if i , or Ai, Bi, Ci, Di, Ei if i . Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the sum R . RQ. Sample Explanation Note The samples below are the same as those in chapter , only encoded with the scheme above. In the first case, the only query is possible, as depicted above on the left. In the second case, R , , , . In the third case, the only query is not possible as one marble is inside the rubber band, while the other is outside. If the marbles swap places, then the rubber band will be surrounding the wrong marble.# Alphabet Adventuring Alphonse is assembling an alphabet tree and arranging some adventures along the way. An alphabet tree is an unrooted tree with N nodes numbered from to N and N edges. Initially, the ith edge connects nodes Ai and Bi in both directions, and is labeled with a uppercase letter Ci. Two edges incident to a common node are always labeled with different letters. Alphonse has Q events to process, the ith of which is one of two types Ui Li Add a new node to the tree by connecting it to node Ui with a new edge labeled with uppercase letter Li. Newly added nodes are numbered with integers starting from N in the order theyre added. Ui Ki Si Print the final node Alphonse will end up at if he Starts a journey at node Ui. Repeatedly traverses a previously untraversed edge on this journey. If his current node has multiple untraversed edges, he picks the edge labeled with the letter that comes earliest in the string Si. Ends the journey once there are no more untraversed edges at the current node, or Ki edges have been traversed on the journey. Please help Alphonse determine where each journey will take him. Constraints T N , Q , Ai, Bi N Ai Bi Ci, Li, Si,j A, Z Ui, Ki , The sum of N over all test cases is at most ,. The sum of Q over all test cases is at most ,. For each event, it is guaranteed that Ui is a valid node in the tree at the time of the event. Li is different from all existing labels of edges incident to Ui at the time of the event. Sis letters are distinct, and are a superset of all edge labels in the tree at the time of the event. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi, followed by a space, followed by Ci. Then, there is a line containing the single integer Q. Then, Q lines follow, the ith of which is either Ui Li or Ui Ki Si. Output Format For the ith test case, print a single line containing Case i , followed by spaceseparated integers, the answers to all type events. Sample Explanation The first sample cases alphabet tree is depicted above, and yields the following journeys Event traverses M E ended after no more edges from node Event traverses E T A ended after K steps Event traverses A T M ended after K steps Event traverses M E T A ended after no more edges from node Event traverses T ended after no more edges from node The second and third sample cases are depicted below. In the second case, the journeys are Event traverses P C ended after K steps Event traverses P C P ended after K steps Event traverses P C U ended after K steps Event traverses U P ended after no more edges from node In the third case, the journeys are Event traverses C A ended after K steps Event traverses E A ended after K steps Event traverses A ended after K steps# Cup Counterbalancing Courtney has an avantgarde kitchen counter made out of N rectangular sheets of metal of equal height, standing perpendicular to the ground. When viewed directly from the top, the counter looks like an unfilled polygon on a plane with N edges, the ith of which extends from point Xi, Yi to point Xi mod N, Yi mod N. These line segments only intersect at their endpoints. Courtneys friends often make fun of the counter, saying that the thin metal surface is useless for holding anything up, but Courtney wants to prove them wrong. Courtney considers placing a cup with a circular rim of radius R onto the counter with the rim facing down, centered at a point chosen uniformly randomly from the square , L , L. What is the chance that the cup stays balanced on the counter without falling Your output will be accepted if it is within of the jurys answer. Note The facedown cup is modeled as an unfilled ringnot as a disk. Constraints T N R, L Xi, Yi Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing three spaceseparated integers N, R, and L. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi, Output Format For the ith test case, print a line containing Case i followed by a single real number between and , the chance that the cup will balance if placed with its rim centered at a uniformly random point in the square , L , L. Sample Explanation The counters in the first and second sample cases are depicted below, with the blue regions representing points at which centering the cup will lead to it staying balanced. # Emerald Exhibiting Ishiko is opening a bracelet shop. Each bracelet she plans to sell is expressed as a ring of N colored beads, with exactly K green beads made of emerald, and NK remaining beads of all unique colors neither green nor the same as any other bead in the bracelet. Ishiko has an infinite number of beads available for each of these N K different colors. Ishiko wants to exhibit one copy of every possible distinct bracelet. Two bracelets are considered distinct if one is not a cyclic rotation of the other. For instance, the two bracelets on the left are distinct, but the two bracelets on the right are not A vendor takes orders for triangular display cases of arbitrary positive integer heights. A case of height H has H rows, where the ith row has i slots, each slot capable of holding one bracelet. For example, a case of height is shown below and holds bracelets How many display cases of possibly differing heights will Ishiko need to buy to exhibit one copy of every possible bracelet without leaving any empty slots in the display cases Constraints T N K N The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of cases. For each case, there is a line containing two spaceseparated integers, N and K. Output Format For the ith case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the minimum number of display cases that Ishiko needs to purchase to exhibit one copy of each bracelet. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, lets say that Ishikos beads are green, blue, and red. There are possible bracelets for N beads with K green beads, red bead, and blue bead up to rotation Ishiko can use a single display case of height to display these bracelets. In the second sample case, lets say that Ishikos beads are green, blue, red, and yellow. There are possible bracelets for N beads with K green beads, blue bead, red bead, and yellow bead. Some examples are Ishiko can display these bracelets if she purchases a case of height and a case of height . In the third sample case, there are possible bracelets and Ishiko needs at least display cases to display all of them. One possibility is that she buys two cases of height , one case of height , and one case of height .# Hazelnut Harvesting Boss Rob planted N happy little hazel trees in his yard represented on a Cartesian plane. The ith tree is at integer coordinates Xi, Yi. Its harvesting season, and Rob would like to set up some nets around the trees to collect the hazelnuts that fall. Each net must be an axisaligned rectangle with integer vertices on lattice points. Rob needs at least unit of space between nets so he can walk between them and collect the nuts. That is, nets cannot intersect, touch, or be nested. Each tree must lie strictly inside its net, i.e. must be at least unit away from the nets edge. Boss Rob can set up any number of nets, but would like to know the minimum total area of net required to cover all N trees. Constraints T N , Xi, Yi All Xi, Yi in a given test case are distinct. N , in at most two test cases. The sum of N over all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of cases. For each case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Xi and Yi. Output Format For the ith case, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the minimum total area of net needed to enclose all trees according to the above requirements. Sample Explanation Solutions for the first two sample cases are depicted below. In the first case, the minimum possible net area is . In the second case, the minimum possible net area is . In the third case, its almost possible to give each tree its own net. Unfortunately, there needs to be at least unit of space between the nets at , so Boss Rob can walk through. This makes it indirectly necessary to use one big net to cover all trees. # ML Modeling You just landed a job as a machine learning engineer As a rampup exercise, Boss Rob tasked you with modeling the watering wells in his yard, which can be represented on a Cartesian plane. Boss Rob has a primary well at point Ax, Ay and a backup well at a different point Bx, By, each able to water trees within an R unit radius. Using Ax, Ay, Bx, By, and R unknown integers to you, Rob plants N happy little trees at real number points obtained by N calls to the function def genonetreeAx, Ay, Bx, By, R while True r random.uniform, R theta random.uniform, math.pi x Ax rmath.costheta y Ay rmath.sintheta if x Bx y By RR return x, y Here, random.uniformL, H returns a real number in L, H uniformly at random. In other words, he picks a point x, y in the circular range of the primary well using the special method above. If x, y happens to be in range of the backup well, he plants a tree there else he discards it and tries again with a new x, y. This repeats until Rob has planted N trees. Given only the planted tree coordinates X, Y, XN, YN, you are tasked to predict the exact values of Ax, Ay, Bx, By, and R. As you are new, Boss Rob will accept your solution if it correctly predicts at least of the test cases. Constraints T , N , Ax, Ay, Bx, By Ax, Ay Bx, By R The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. The intersection area of the two circular regions is strictly positive. Tree coordinates in the data were truly generated using the randomized algorithm as described above. The secret parameters Ax, Ay, Bx, By, and R have also been chosen uniformly at random for each case rejecting cases where the circles are identical or do not have positive overlap. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing a single integer N, the number of planted trees. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated real numbers Xi and Yi, each given to decimal places. Output Format For the ith test case, print a line containing Case i , followed by the five spaceseparated integers Ax, Ay, Bx, By, and R, in that order. Sample Explanation The first sample case is pictured below, with the primary wells range in red, the backup wells range in blue, and the randomlygenerated trees in green # Tile Transposing Bejeweled is a classic puzzle game where the player tries to match threeinarow in a D grid of tiles by swapping pairs of adjacent tiles. Isblinged is Hacker Cups spinoff, played on a grid of R rows by C columns of tiles. The tile at i, j is of an integer type Gi,j. A group refers to three or more tiles of the same type, connected directly or indirectly via the four orthogonal directions left, right, up, and down. Initially, the given grid G may already contain groups. The player may swap two orthogonally adjacent tiles of different types. If the swap results in either tile being in a group of three or more tiles, then all tiles in the newlyformed groups are cleared. For the example below sample case , swapping the first two tiles in row would clear tiles On the other hand, swapping the first two tiles in the second column would clear tiles Note that the type group is not cleared because it doesnt contain a swapped tile. Please find the sum of tiles that would be cleared over all possible theoretical swaps of ordered pairs of tiles Gi, j and Gi, j such that i i j j and Gi, j Gi, j. Constraints T R, C Gi,j The sum of RC across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of cases. For each case, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers, R and C. Then, R lines follow, the ith of which contains C spaceseparated integers Gi,.C. Output Format For the ith case, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of tiles that can be cleared with a single swap. Sample Explanation In the first sample case G, G, and G, cant be swapped with anything that leads to any tiles being cleared. G, can be swapped with the type tile below to clear tiles. G, can be swapped with the type tile right of it to clear tiles. G, can be swapped with either the type cell above or to the left, each clearing tiles. The answer is therefore . In the second sample case, the unordered pairs of swaps clearing nonzero numbers of tiles are G, G, clearing tiles G, G, clearing tiles G, G, clearing tiles G, G, clearing tiles G, G, clearing tiles G, G, clearing tiles G, G, clearing tiles G, G, clearing tiles G, G, clearing tiles Doubling the sum for ordered pairs, we get .# Cheeseburger Corollary This problem shares some similarities with A, with key differences in bold. Problem solving skills are applicable to many daily musings. For instance, you might ponder over shared birthdays, bird houses, mapmaking, or ordering an exact number of chicken nuggets. Naturally, another great question to ponder is how many deckers of a cheeseburger you could build if you spent your entire salary on fast food Specifically, youre interested in building a Kdecker cheeseburger, which alternates between buns, cheese, and patty starting and ending with a bun. Youve already bought S single cheeseburgers and D double cheeseburgers. Each provides you with two buns, though a single provides one patty and one cheese, while a double provides two patties and two cheese. Youd like to know whether you can build a Kdecker cheeseburger with the ingredients from S single and D double cheeseburgers. Constraints T S, D K Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case contains one line with three spaceseparated integers, S and D and K. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by YES if you have enough ingredients to build a Kdecker cheeseburger, or NO otherwise. Sample Explanation In the first case, you have one single and one double cheeseburger. In total, you have buns, slices of cheese, and patties. This gives you exactly enough ingredients to build a decker cheeseburger. In the second case, you have buns, but a decker cheeseburger would require , so you cannot build it. In the third case, you have plenty of ingredients to build a decker cheeseburger. Youll even have single and double cheeseburgers left over afterwards.# Cheeseburger Corollary This problem shares some similarities with A, with key differences in bold. Problem solving skills are applicable to many daily musings. For instance, you might ponder over shared birthdays, bird houses, mapmaking, or ordering an exact number of chicken nuggets. Naturally, another great question to ponder is how many deckers of a cheeseburger you could build if you spent your entire salary on fast food Specifically, youre interested in building a Kdecker cheeseburger, which alternates between buns, cheese, and patty starting and ending with a bun. Buying a single cheeseburger costs A dollars and a double cheeseburger costs B dollars. Each provides you with two buns, though a single provides one patty and one cheese, while a double provides two patties and two cheese. Youd like to know the biggest K for which you can build a Kdecker cheeseburger by spending at most C dollars. Constraints T A, B, C Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case contains one line with three spaceseparated integers, A, B and C. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the largest possible K for which you can build a Kdecker cheeseburger, or if you cannot build even a decker cheeseburger. Sample Explanation In the first case, you can buy single and double cheeseburger. This gives you buns, slices of cheese, and patties, exactly enough for a decker cheeseburger. In the second case, you can only afford to build a decker cheeseburger. Thats coincidentally identical to a single cheeseburger. In the third case, you only have , while a single costs and a double costs . No fast food for you today. In the fourth case, our best possible strategy is to spend all our money on doubles, which we can use to build a decker cheeseburger. In the fifth case, our best possible strategy is to spend all our money on singles, which we can use to build a decker cheeseburger.# Dim Sum Delivery Nim Sum Dim Sum, a bustling local dumpling restaurant, has two game theoryloving servers named, you guessed it, Alice and Bob. Its dining area can be represented as a twodimensional grid of R rows numbered .R from top to bottom by C columns numbered .C from left to right. Currently, both of them are standing at coordinates , where there is a big cart of dim sum. Their job is to work together to push the cart to a customer at coordinates R, C. To make the job more interesting, theyve turned it into a game. Alice and Bob will take turns pushing the cart. On Alices turn, the cart must be moved between and A units down. On Bobs turn, the cart must be moved between and B units to the right. The cart may not be moved out of the grid. If the cart is already at row R on Alices turn or column C on Bobs turn, then that person loses their turn. The winner is the person to ultimately move the cart to R, C and thus get all the recognition from the customer. Alice pushes first. Does she have a guaranteed winning strategy Constraints T R, C A R B C Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case will contain one line with four spaceseparated integers, R, C, A, and B. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by YES if Alice has a guaranteed winning strategy, or NO otherwise. Sample Explanation The first case is depicted below, with Alices moves in red and Bobs in blue. Alice moves down, and Bob moves right to win immediately. There is no other valid sequence of moves, so Alice has no guaranteed winning strategy. The second case is depicted below. One possible guaranteed winning strategy is if Alice moves units down, then Bob can only move unit, and finally Alice can win with unit. # Road to Nutella You and your friends have drawn a really big connected graph in sidewalk chalk with N nodes numbered from .N and M edges. Q times, there will be a race from node ai to node bi, with a chance to win a coveted hazelnut chocolate snack. By the unbreakable rules of hopscotch, everyone must travel along a path from node ai to node bi using edges in the graph, alternating which foot touches the ground at each node, starting each race with their left foot on ai. Your friends will make a mad dash for the chocolate along the shortest path from ai to bi. You on the other hand are looking for a more interesting challenge, and are allowed to take any path, potentially including any nodes even bi multiple times. You want to end at node bi, but with the following conditions You must finish on a different foot from everyone who took the shortest path. To make things interesting, youd like to minimize the number of edges you travel through more than once. An illustration of the first sample. Your friends take a shortest path blue, and you can take the path in red. The path in red travels through edge multiple times the edge connecting nodes and . For each query, is it possible to fulfill your two conditions If so, add the minimum number of edges you have to travel through multiple times to your answer. If not, add to your answer. Constraints T N, M, Q The sum of N, M, and Q over all cases are each no more than . There will be at most one edge connecting the same pair of nodes directly. The graph is connected. No edge will connect a node with itself. For all queries, ai bi. That is, the start and end of each race will be on different nodes. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers, N and M. M lines follow, each containing two integers describing the endpoints of an edge. Then, there is a line containing a single integer Q. Q lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers ai and bi. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the sum of answers to all queries in that case. The answer to a query is the minimum number of edges youd need to travel through more than once to reach node bi on a the other foot than your friends, or if it isnt possible to do so. Sample Explanation The graph for the first case is shown above. The first query asks us to go from node to node . The shortest paths one shown in blue will start on the left and end on the right foot, but we can end our our left by taking the red path. Well cross the edge from to more than once, so the answer to this query is . The answers to the queries are , , respectively. In the second case, the query answers are , respectively. In the third case, the query answers are , respectively. In the fourth case, the query answers are , respectively. # Two Apples a Day An apple a day keeps the doctor away is Steves motto. His other motto, You can never have too much of a good thing, holds true for both apples and mottos. Steve would like to eat two apples per day for the next N days, but with strict adherence to his third motto Consistency is key. Specifically, hed like the sum of the two apple weights he eats over the next N days to be the same for each day. Steve has already purchased N apples, the ith of which weighs Ai ounces. Hed like to buy one more apple thats as light as possible to fulfill his goal. Steve can buy an apple of any positive integer weight in ounces from the store. Is it possible for him to reach his goal, and if so, what weight apple should he buy The above image depicts the solution to the first sample. Each day, Steve will eat two apples totalling oz. Steve must buy a oz apple to make this happen. Constraints T N The sum of N over all cases is at most , Ai Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case starts with a single integer N. The next line contains N spaceseparated integers A, ., AN . Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed a single integer, the smallest possible apple weight in ounces that Steve can buy so that he can eat two apples for the next N days and have the sum of apple weights be the same every day, or if doing so is impossible. Sample Explanation In the first case, if Steve buys a oz apple, he can group his apples as shown above. For this input, theres no way to succeed by buying any apple below oz. In the second case, Steve can buy a oz apple, and eat two apples totaling oz each day. In the third case, any apple weight will suffice, so Steve will buy the lightest one possible. In the fourth case, no matter what weight apple Steve attempts to buy, it is impossible for him to achieve his goal. Please note, as demonstrated in the seventh case, that its possible for the answer to exceed . # Back in Black Chapter This problem shares some similarities with C, with key differences in bold. A friend who works at Metal Platforms Inc just lent you a curious puzzle, offering you tickets to a metal concert if you can solve it. The puzzle consists of N buttons in a row, numbered from to N. The initial state of button i is white if Si , or black if Si . Pressing a button k toggles the state of itself as well as every kth button. Your friend challenges you to return the puzzle to him with all buttons back in black. Life is hard enough without siblings pushing your buttons. Unfortunately, your brother has taken the puzzle and will push Q buttons sequentially, the ith being button Bi. After your brother has pushed all Q buttons, youd like to know the minimum number of button presses required to turn all the buttons black. Constraints T N , Q , The sum of N and Q over all cases will be at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, there is a line containing a bitstring S of length N. Then, there is a line containing a single integer Q. Q lines follow, the ith of which contains a single integer Bi. Output Format For the ith test case, output a single line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the number of button presses needed to turn all buttons black after all Q button presses. Sample Explanation The first sample case is depicted below. After your brother presses the first button, the state of the puzzle is . The best strategy is to press the second button, turning all lights off. In the second case, the puzzle starts as , and after each button press becomes , , and respectively. Pressing only the third button will return the puzzle to all zeros.# Back in Black Chapter This problem shares some similarities with C, with key differences in bold. A friend who works at Metal Platforms Inc just lent you a curious puzzle, offering you tickets to a metal concert if you can solve it. The puzzle consists of N buttons in a row, numbered from to N. The initial state of button i is white if Si , or black if Si . Pressing a button k toggles the state of itself as well as every kth button. Your friend challenges you to return the puzzle to him with all buttons back in black. Life is hard enough without siblings pushing your buttons. Unfortunately, your brother has taken the puzzle and will push Q buttons sequentially, the ith being button Bi. After your brother pushes each button, youd like to add to your answer the minimum number of button presses required to turn all the buttons black. Constraints T N , Q , The sum of N and Q over all cases will be at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, there is a line containing a bitstring S of length N. Then, there is a line containing a single integer Q. Q lines follow, the ith of which contains a single integer Bi. Output Format For the ith test case, output a single line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of the number of button presses needed to turn all buttons black after each of the Q presses. Sample Explanation In the first case, after your brother presses the first button, the state of the puzzle is . The best strategy is to press the second button, turning all lights off. In the second case, the puzzle starts as , and after each button press becomes , , and respectively. The answers after each query are , , and respectively, so we output their sum of .# Bohemian Rapsody Is this a real verse Is this just fantasy Caught in a mixtape, no escape from this melody. Open your ears, listen to the beats and see. Im just a rapper, I need no sympathy, Because its easy come, easy go, little high, little low, Any way the bars flow doesnt really matter to me, to me. As an upandcoming rapper, youre trying to distinguish yourself by writing a song with the most bohemian rhyme scheme Your vocabulary consists of N words, W, WN made up of only lowercase letters. We consider two words to Krhyme with each other if they have the same suffix of length K. For example, mixtape rhymes with escape. If two words Krhyme for K , they also Krhyme. You are faced with Q bohemian rapqueries, the ith of which specifies Ai, Bi, Ki. Youd like to assign each word WAi, WBi to at most one group such that the number of words in each group is unique and nonzero, groups only contain words with length at least Ki, within each group, all pairs of words Kirhyme with each other, and no two words from different groups Kirhyme. The answer to each query is the maximum possible number of nonempty groups. For each test case, output the sum of the answers over all queries. Constraints T N , Wi , Q , Ai Bi N Ki , All words consist of only letters a, ., z All words within a test case are distinct. The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. The sum of Q across all test cases is at most ,. The sum of word lengths across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. N lines follow, the ith of which contains the string Wi. Then, there is a line containing a single integer Q. Q lines follow, the ith of which contains spaceseparated integers Ai, Bi, and Ki. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of answers over all queries. Sample Explanation For the first query in the first test case, we are allowed to choose from all W, ., W words to form groups where words of the same group rhyme with each other. One possible choice of the groups is low, sympathy, fantasy, melody, mixtape, escape with come and high going unused. Therefore the answer to the first query is . The answers to the remaining queries are , and , with the overall sum of answers for this test case equal to . In the second test case, the answers to the queries are , with the sum being .# Here Comes Santa Claus right down Santa Claus Lane Santa Claus Lane is home to N elves, the ith of whom lives Xi meters from the start of the lane. As Santas little helper, youre tasked to assign elves to work on toys for good little girls and boys. Specifically, you must assign each elf to work on some toy so that at least toys get worked on, and no elf works on a toy alone. All elves working on the same toy will meet at the point which minimizes the farthest distance that any of them would need to walk. Formally, if the elves assigned to a given toy live at X, X, then they will meet at point P such that X P, X P, is as small as possible. For instance, the first sample case is depicted below Santa is supervising, and you reckon he could use some exercise. Among all valid assignments of elves to toys, whats the farthest Santa would need to walk to visit all meeting points Santa may start and end anywhere, but will try to walk as little as possible after seeing your assignments. Constraints T N Xi Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case begins with one line containing the integer N, followed by a second line containing the the N integers X . XN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single real number, the farthest distance Santa would need to walk in meters. Your answer will be considered correct if it differs from the jurys answer by at most meters or at most ., whichever is larger. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, elves living at ,m and ,m will work on a toy. Elves living at ,m,m, and ,m will work on another toy, and elves at ,m and ,m will work on the third toy. The toys will be made at ,m,m and ,m respectively. Santa would need to walk at least ,m in total to visit every meeting point. The second sample case is depicted below. No elf is allowed to work alone and we must make two toys. One optimal way of doing this is to have the leftmost elves work on one toy at ,m, and the rest work on the other toy at . ,m. This would maximize the distance Santa would have to walk among all valid elf assignments. In the third case, the two toys will be made at ,m and ,m.# Sum Chapter This problem shares some similarities with B, with key differences in bold. Given a positive integer P, please find an array of at most positive integers which have a sum of and a product of P, or output if no such array exists. If multiple such arrays exist, you may output any one of them. Constraints T P Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is one line containing a single integer P. Output Format For the ith test case, if there is no such array, print Case i . Otherwise, print Case i followed by the integer N, the size of your array, followed by the array itself as N more spaceseparated positive integers. Sample Explanation In the first sample, we must find an array with product , and sum . One possible answer is , .# Sum Chapter This problem shares some similarities with B, with key differences in bold. Given a positive integer P, please find an array of at most positive integers which have a sum of and a product of P, or output if no such array exists. If multiple such arrays exist, print one with the fewest number of elements. If there are multiple with the fewest number of elements, you may print any one of them. Constraints T P Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is one line containing a single integer P. Output Format For the ith test case, if there is no such array, print Case i . Otherwise, print Case i followed by the integer N, the size of your array, followed by the array itself as N more spaceseparated positive integers. Sample Explanation In the first sample, we must find an array with product , and sum . One possible answer is , .# Today is Gonna be a Great Day This could possibly be the best day ever And the forecast says that tomorrow will likely be a billion and times better. So make every minute count, jump up, jump in, and seize the day, And lets make sure that in every single possible way today is gonna be a great day Theres N days of summer vacation, and the ith day initially has greatness Ai. However, the days just keep getting better In particular, there will be Q changes, the ith of which changes the greatness of every day from Li to Ri to be , times what they were before After each query, youd like to know which days greatness modulo , is the largest If multiple days tie, were interested in the earliest of them. For example, if there are N days with greatnesses , , then days and have the largest remainder, so our answer would be . To keep the output size small, please print only the sum of answers to all queries. Constraints T N , Ai , Q , Li Ri N The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, there is a line containing N spaceseparated integers A, ., AN. Then, there is a line containing a single integer Q. Q lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Li and Ri. Output Format For the ith test case, print a single line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of the greatest days after each of the Q queries. Sample Explanation In the first test case, there are N days with initial greatnesses of , . The first query modifies all days, transforming their greatnesses , , where the maximum is on day . After the second query, day will have the largest greatness of ,. The overall answer is the sum of the greatest days, which is .# Meta Game Hacker Cup contest strategy often involves a metagame, where choosing which problems to work on might just be an important decision. On a Quest to become more Pro, you encounter an oracle promising to teach you the contest meta if you play her own Metagame. The oracle presents a peg board with N moving dots. The initial ypositions of the dots are given as two arrays A.N and B.N. Each second, simultaneously, A will move to the end of B, while B will move to the end of A with all elements shifting left accordingly. You can connect the dots to form a Metalike logo if all of the following are true For the first half of both arrays, each dot in A is below the corresponding dot in B. For the last half of both arrays, each dot in A is above the corresponding dot in B. A equals the reverse of B. Formally Ai Bi for every i N Ai BNi for every i .N Note that if N is odd, the arrays middle elements are not subject to the first two constraints. The following is a visualization of a Metalike logo corresponding to the first sample case, with dots in A shown in red and dots in B shown in blue. You must answer the oracle how many seconds must pass before the first time a Metalike logo appears If one never appears, output . Constraints T N , Ai, Bi , The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, there is a line containing integers A, ., AN. Then, there is a line containing integers B, ., BN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the number of seconds that must pass before a Metalike logo appears, or if that will never happen. Sample Explanation The first test case is shown above. A and B already form a Metalike logo, so the answer is . The second case is not initially a Metalike logo, for several reasons. One reason is that it is not symmetric. Specifically, the , , , is not the reverse of , , ,. After second though, this case turns into the case above and is Metalike. The third and fourth cases will never turn into a Metalike logo, no matter how many seconds we wait. In the fifth case, after seconds we see the first Metalike logo. In this case A , , and B , , . # Ready, Go Part This problem shares some similarities with A, with key differences in bold. Atari More like Atari BCE The classic board game Go is a twoplayer game played on an R C board. One player places white stones while the other places black stones. On a players turn, they may place a stone in any empty space. A curiosity of Go is that stones are placed on the intersections of grid lines rather than between the lines, so an inprogress game looks like this An orthogonally contiguous set of stones of the same color is called a group. A group of stones is captured and removed from the board once no stones in the group has an adjacent empty space. Youre playing as Black and its your turn. Given a valid board i.e. no groups have adjacent empty spaces, is it possible to capture any white stones on this turn with a single black stone Here are some examples of captures. If a black stone is placed at the point marked with a triangle, a single white stone will be captured Here, Black can capture a group of white stones. Note that this move is valid even though the new black stone has no adjacent empty spaces at the moment its placed Black can even capture multiple groups at once. Here, Black captures a group of stones and a group of stones The Go board is represented as a character array A where Ai, j is one of B for a black stone W for a white stone . for an empty space Constraints T R, C Ai, j ., B, W Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case begins with a line containing two integers R and C. Then, R lines follow, the ith of which contains C characters Ai, through Ai,C. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by YES if you can capture any white stones, or NO if you cannot. Sample Explanation The first sample case is the first capture example shown above. Black can capture the lone white stone. In the second case, Black can capture a group of white stones. The third case is the same as the second case, except that the group of white stones has two empty adjacent spaces, so it cannot be captured in one term. The other white stones can also not be captured on this turn. In the fourth case, White could capture a black stone if it was their turn, but Black cannot capture any white stones. The fifth case is the second capture example shown above. Black can capture white stones by playing in the upperleft corner.# Ready, Go Part This problem shares some similarities with A, with key differences in bold. Atari More like Atari BCE The classic board game Go is a twoplayer game played on an R C board. One player places white stones while the other places black stones. On a players turn, they may place a stone in any empty space. A curiosity of Go is that stones are placed on the intersections of grid lines rather than between the lines, so an inprogress game looks like this An orthogonally contiguous set of stones of the same color is called a group. A group of stones is captured and removed from the board once no stones in the group has an adjacent empty space. Youre playing as Black and its your turn. Given a valid board i.e. no groups have adjacent empty spaces, whats the maximum number of white stones you can capture with a single black stone Here are some examples of captures. If a black stone is placed at the point marked with a triangle, a single white stone will be captured Here, Black can capture a group of white stones. Note that this move is valid even though the new black stone has no adjacent empty spaces at the moment its placed Black can even capture multiple groups at once. Here, Black captures a group of stones and a group of stones The Go board is represented as a character array A where Ai, j is one of B for a black stone W for a white stone . for an empty space Constraints T R, C , Ai, j ., B, W Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case begins with a line containing two integers R and C. Then, R lines follow, the ith of which contains C characters Ai, through Ai,C. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the maximum number of white stones you can capture on your turn. Sample Explanation In the first case, Black can capture white stones by playing in the bottomright corner. In the second case, there are no white stones that can be captured. In the third case, Black can capture both white groups at once, for a total of white stones. In the fourth case, there are different white stones that can be captured, but Black can capture at most of them at once by playing in the center of the board.# Tower Rush Alice and Bob are playing Tower Rush, a twophase game involving N types of blocks, numbered from to N. Blocks of type i have height Hi, and no two types of blocks have the same height. Phase of the game consists of K alternating turns, with Alice going first. On each players turn, they will choose a block type that has not yet been chosen. Note that if K is odd, this phase would end with Alice having chosen one more type of block than Bob. From this point on, players have access to infinitely many blocks of each of the types they chose. Phase consists of an indefinite number of alternating turns, with Bob going first. Each player starts with a tower of height . On each players turn, they may pick a block of any type i available to them, and extend their tower height by Hi. They may also choose to skip their turn, leaving their tower unchanged. In a break from tradition, Alice and Bob want to work together to see if its possible for Alice to build a tower thats exactly D units taller than Bobs. In how many different ways can phase be played out such that it will be possible for Alice to get her tower to be exactly D units taller than Bobs in phase Two ways are considered different if there exists an i such that different block types are chosen on turn i between the two ways. As this value may be large, output it modulo ,. Constraints T N , K N, D , Hi , The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, the first line contains the integers N, K, and D. Then, there is a line containing the N integers H, ., HN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the number of unique ways to accomplish Bobs goal, modulo ,. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, there are valid choices of blocks in phase . One such example is H , H for Alice and H for Bob. Four turns in phase can go as follows Bob adds H . His tower now has height . Alice adds H . Her tower now has height . Bob chooses not to add a block. His tower still has height . Alice adds H . Her tower now has height . Alices tower is now exactly units taller than Bobs, so this is a valid choice. An example of an invalid choice in the first test case would be H , H for Alice and H for Bob, since no matter how they build their towers, it is impossible for the difference in the height of their towers to ever be .# Wiki Race You and some friends are playing Wiki Racehttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiWikipediaWikiGame on an online encyclopedia of N pages, numbered from to N. Page i covers Mi topics Si, . Si,Mi, each a string of lowercase letters. Each player starts on a unique page, and will race to reach page the target page by repeatedly clicking to neighboring pages. Unfortunately, someone out there has already published the shortest path from each page to page for the whole internet to see. This forms a tree structure with page as the root, and edges directed upwards from each descendent page. In particular, you and your friends all know that at each page i , one should click to the neighboring page Pi for the fastest route to page . In light of this, all players have agreed to a new rule that each page should be visited by exactly one person per game. This means that once a player hits a page someone has already visited, their upward path ends there and the player loses. Formally, we can express each games outcome as a partition of the tree into vertexdisjoint paths, with each paths upper endpoint always having an edge to a node on another players path except the winner, whose upper endpoint is page . After playing the game for so long, youre all starting to realize that its not about winning, but the knowledge acquired along the way For a given partition of the tree into paths, a topic is mutuallylearned by all players if every path has at least one page covering that topic. Youd like to know, across all possible partitions of paths, all topics that could be mutuallylearned. Constraints T N , Pi N Mi , Si,j Si,j consists only of lowercase letters a.z. The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. The sum of Mi across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing a single integer N. Then, there is a line containing N integers P, ., PN. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the integer Mi, followed by strings Si, . Si,Mi. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the number of topics that can be mutuallylearned. Sample Explanation The three sample cases are depicted below In the first case gouda is mutuallylearned in the partition , , , cheddar is mutuallylearned in the partition , , , edam is mutuallylearned in the same partition as cheddar as well as in other partitions such as , , , gjetost, gruyere, and mozzarella can never be mutuallylearned In the second case, the only topic that can be mutuallylearned is earth. In the third case, the partition , makes all three topics mutuallylearned.# Double Stars Patricks big sister Sam is visiting for Halloween, and Sandy wants to impress the two Stars by dressing as an astronaut. Unfortunately her regular outfit already resembles an astronaut, so shell have to go as a computer scientist instead. Sandy knows a lot about double starshttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiDoublestar in astronomy, but will now have to learn about double stars in graph theory. There is an unrooted tree with N nodes, and an edge between nodes i and Pi for each i . A double star is a tree centered at some edge u v, where u and v each have x chains connected to them, each chain consisting of y nodes x, y . Alternatively, you can think of a double star as two identical star graphs each with x chains of length y connected by their centers. Thus, a distinct double star is specified by a tuple u, v, x, y, where u v. Please help Sandy count the number of distinct tuples u, v, x, y for which the tree contains the double star described by that tuple as a subgraph. Constraints T N , Pi N The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case has two lines. The first contains the integer N, and the second contains the N integers P through PN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the number of distinct double star tuples u, v, x, y, where u v. Sample Explanation The first sample tree is depicted below. There are distinct double star tuples , , , , , , , , and , , . The second sample tree is depicted below. There are distinct double star tuples , , , , , , , , and , , . In the third sample tree, no double stars exist because arm lengths of are not allowed y .# Hash Slinger Spongebob wants to go out trickortreating on Halloween, but has to work a graveyard shift at the Krusty Krab. Luckily, his ghostly fry cook friend, the hashslinging slasher, is here to cover. At the start of the shift, there are N patties on the grill numbered from to N, the ith of which weighs Ai grams. For each order that comes in, the slasher removes from the grill a nonempty sequence of patties at contiguous indices i.j patties i.j must all be on the grill at that moment. The deliciousness of the order is defined as Ai . Aj, modulo M because too much meat can be overpowering Note that if a patty is removed, a future orders range cannot span across that empty spot. Also, there may be patties left over at the end. As proof of his hard work at the end of the shift, the slasher will compute a hash by taking the bitwise XORhttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiBitwiseoperation of the deliciousnesses of all the orders. How many distinct hashes are possible across all valid sequences of or more orders Constraints T Ai , N , M , The sum of N M across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case begins with a line containing the two integers N and M. Then, there is a single line containing N integers, A, ., AN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the number of different possible hashes. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, there are patties with A , and M . The possible valid order sequences patties removed and hashes are No patties removed hash Patties . hash Patties . hash Patties . hash Patties . hash Patties . hash Patties . hash Patties . and patties . hash Patties . and patties . hash Patties . and patties . hash Patties . and patties . hash Patties . and patties . hash Patties ., patties ., and patties . hash There are distinct hashes the slasher can make , and . In the second case, the slasher can make hashes for example, with no orders and for example, with orders, each including one of the patties. # Krabotage Despite his age, Mr. Krabs still goes trickortreating. Free candy free anything, really is irresistible to him. Bikini Bottom is an R C grid of houses, with house i, j having Ai,j pieces of candy. Mr. Krabs plans to travel from house , the topleft corner, to house R, C, the bottomright corner, taking as much candy as possible along the way. When Mr. Krabs is at house i, j, he takes all the candy, and then either moves down to house i , j or right to house i, j . Plankton wants to sabotage him, and has decided to complete his own candy run before Mr. Krabs even starts his trip. Plankton will go from house , C, the topright corner, to house R, the bottomleft corner. When Plankton is at house i, j, he takes all its candy so theres none left for Mr. Krabs later and either moves down to house i , j or left to house i, j . Whats the maximum amount of candy that Mr. Krabs can collect, assuming that Plankton strives to minimize this value by completing his trip before Mr. Krabs starts Constraints T R, C Ai,j , The sum of R C across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case begins with a line containing the two integers R and C. Then, R lines follow, the ith of which contains the C integers Ai, through Ai,C. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the maximum pieces of candy that Mr. Krabs can get if Plankton optimally sabotages. Sample Explanation The following depicts sample cases through . Planktons paths to minimize Mr. Krabss candy are greyed out, while Mr. Krabss optimal paths through the remaining candy in spite of Planktons sabotage are drawn in red. # Similar Ships The Flying Dutchman is making a killing giving out haunted house tours of his ghost ship. The ship has N cabins, numbered from to N, connected by corridors in the shape of an unrooted tree t. For each i.N, there is a corridor that connects cabin i to cabin Pi. Mr. Krabs noticed this business opportunity, and wants to make his own ship, also with N cabins, connected as a yettobedetermined tree t. To avoid any lawsuits from the Dutchman, he would like to make his ship as different as possible. In particular, let St be the multiset of all subtrees of tree t, where a subtree is any nonempty subset of cabins that are connected. For two multisets of trees S and S, let similarityS, S be the number of trees in S that are isomorphichttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiGraphisomorphism to at least one tree in S. Note that similarityS, S and similarityS, S are not necessarily equal. Help Mr. Krabs find the minimum possible value of similaritySt, St over all trees t of size N. As this value may be large, output it modulo ,. Constraints T N , Pi N The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case has two lines. The first contains the integer N, and the second contains the N integers P through PN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the minimum possible similarity if t is chosen optimally, modulo ,. Sample Explanation The first sample case is depicted below. One possible tree that minimizes the similarity score is the same tree given in the input i.e. choose t t. Then, St consists of the subtrees , , , , and , . Each subtree is isomorphic to a subtree of t, so the similarity score is . In the second case, one possible t that minimizes the similarity score is depicted below. This tree has different subtrees, of which are isomorphic to a subtree of the given t. For example, the subtree , , of this t is isomorphic to subtree , , of the given t, but the subtree , , of this t is not isomorphic to any subtree of t. # Spooky Splits Mrs. Puff is taking her class trickortreating Her N students, numbered from to N, are dressed up in spooky outfits and ready to collect some candy. To divide and conquer every house in Bikini Bottom, she would like to break up the class into equalsized groups. M pairs of students have similarthemed costumes that amplify their spookiness, the ith being students Ai and Bi. Ms. Puffs would like to know for which values of K can the class be divided into K groups of equal size without splitting up any of these pairs Constraints T N M NN Ai, Bi N Ai Bi Each unordered pair of employees occurs at most once in a given test case. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case begins with a line containing the two integers N and M. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains the two integers Ai and Bi. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by all possible values of K in ascending order, separated by spaces. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, there are three possible values of K. Heres a possible arrangement K All students can be put into a single group. K Groups , , , and , , , . K Groups , , , , and , , . In the second case, either all students can be in a single group, or each should form a separate group. In the third test case, the valid values of K, with an example of each, are K All students can be put into a single group. K Groups , , and , , . K Groups , , , and , .# Cacti Cartography Cactus Park is a famous tourist attraction in Sandlandia. It holds N cactus plants, numbered from to N. The cacti are connected by M bidirectional trails, with trail i connecting cacti Ai and Bi. From any cactus, its always possible to get to any other cactus by taking some sequence of trails. There may be cycles in the park, where a cycle is any sequence of trails that lead from a certain cactus back to itself. The park also has a special property that each trail belongs to at most one simple cycle. In graph theory terms, we can say that the Cactus Park forms a cactus graphhttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiCactusgraph. The park owners want to replace some number of cacti with information kiosks to help guide the tourists. Cutting down cactus i and building a kiosk there costs the park Ci dollars. The owners want to build enough kiosks so that the shortest path from every remaining cactus to the closest kiosk does not exceed K trails. Please help the owners determine the minimum total cost required to satisfy this requirement. Constraints T N K N, Ai, Bi N Ai Bi Ci Each unordered pair Ai, Bi appears at most once in a given test case. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing three integers N, M, and K. Then, there is a line containing N integers C.N. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains two integers Ai and Bi. Output Format For the ith case, output Case i , followed by a single integer, the minimum total cost in dollars to satisfy the park owners requirement. Sample Explanation The first case is depicted below. Replacing just cactus would meet the requirement, but would cost . Instead we can replace cacti and for a total cost of . The second case is depicted below. One solution is to replace cacti and for a total cost of . In the third case, all the cactuses are already within trails of each other, so we just need a single kiosk anywhere. We should cut down the cheapest cactus, cactus . In the fourth case, we can cut down cacti , and for a total cost of # Dealing Decks Alice and Bob like to play cards on their lunch break. Their favorite card game starts with two decks on the table containing K and K cards. Players take turns, with Alice going first. Each turn is in two parts . The player selects a deck of cards from the table. Let k be the number of cards in that deck. They then remove somewhere between Ak and Bk Ak Bk k, inclusive, cards from this deck. . The player then puts a new deck of exactly Ck Ck k cards on the table. Here, Ck means no deck is added. The player who takes the last card wins. For each possible value of K from to a given value N, find the minimum possible value of K so that Bob wins the game if both players play optimally. If there is no such K between and N, then K . Output the sum of K across every K .N. To reduce the input size, you will not be given A.N, B.N, and C.N directly. You must instead generate them using parameters Xa, Ya, Za, Xb, Yb, Zb, Xc, Yc, and Zc and the algorithm below Pa Pb Pc for each i .N Pai Pai Xa Ya mod Za Pbi Pbi Xb Yb mod Zb Pci Pci Xc Yc mod Zc Ai i, Pai Bi Ai, i Pbi Ci i , Pci Note that for any i, the algorithm guarantees Ai Bi i and Ci i. Constraints T N , Xa, Ya, Xb, Yb, Xc, Yc , Za, Zb, Zc N The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, first there is a line containing a single integer N. Then, there is a line containing integers Xa, Ya, Za, Xb, Yb, Zb, Xc, Yc, and Zc. Output Format For the ith case, output Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of the minimum K so that Bob has a guaranteed winning strategy, for every K .N. Sample Explanation In the first sample case arraycccccKAKBKCKK array When K , Bob wins when K because Alice takes the first card, and Bob takes the last card. When K , Alice will win if K because she can start by taking card from the first deck. Bob then takes card from either deck each of which have only card left, and Alice takes the last card. But if K then Bob can always win regardless of whether Alice starts by taking card or cards. When K , Bob can always win when K . If Alice takes the single card from the second deck, Bob takes card from the first deck and adds a new deck of size to the table. We now have two decks of size , and its Alices turn. Thats a losing state for Alice as we saw previously. If Alice takes card from the first deck and adds a new deck of size , we now have decks of size , . Bob will pick up the pile of size and again were in the same losing state for Alice. If Alice takes cards from the first deck, well have decks of size , . Bob now takes the whole deck of size . Alice gets the next card and Bob gets the last card. Finally, if Alice takes all cards from the first deck, well have decks of size , . Bob can take just card from the deck of size to win. In the second sample case arraycccccKAKBKCKK array In the third sample case arraycccccKAKBKCKK array In the fourth sample case arraycccccKAKBKCKK array # Nearly Nim Alice and Bob are servers at Nim Sum Dim Sum, a bustling dumpling restaurant. For a staff meal, the manager has generously provided N plates of dumplings in a row, numbered from to N. Initially, plate i has Ai dumplings. In classic fashion, the duo has decided to play a game. Alice and Bob will take turns eating dumplings from the plates. On a given turn, a player must pick a plate adjacent to the last picked plate by the other player, and eat any positive number of dumplings from that plate. The first player who cannot do so on their turn loses. Alice goes first, and can choose any starting plate to eat from. For example, suppose there are three plates holding , and dumplings respectively. On the first turn, Alice can eat dumplings from the first plate. Bob must then eat the dumpling from the middle plate. Alice can respond by eating one dumpling from the third plate. Bob must then eat from plate , but since its empty now, he loses. Assuming both players play optimally, how many starting moves can Alice make so that she wins Two starting moves are considered different if Alice eats from different plates, or eats a different number of dumplings. Constraints T N , Ai The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of cases. Each case will begin with a single integer N followed by the N integers A, ., AN on the next line. Output Format For the ith case, output Case i followed by a single integer, the number of winning starting moves Alice has. Sample Explanation In the first case, Alice can start by taking any number of dumplings from either the first or third plate. Bob will then have to take the solitary dumpling on the middle plate, and Alice can win by taking all the dumplings from the plate she didnt start with. This gives Alice different winning starting moves. In the second case, Alice cannot win because she takes one dumpling, Bob takes the other, and then Alice has no move to make. In the third case, Alices winning moves are to take or dumplings from the righthand plate. In the fourth case, Bob can always force a win.# Programming Paths Part The only difference between chapters and is the maximum allowed grid size, given in bold below. A Drizzle program is a D grid of the following four types of cells start there is exactly one start cell in the entire grid wall . space instruction The program uses two registers A and B both initially , and executes as follows . Compute the minimum distance from the start to each instruction cell using orthogonal movements, without going outside of the grid or passing through any wall cells. Instruction cells that cannot be reached are ignored. . In increasing order, for each unique distance D such that theres at least one instruction cell thats at distance D from the start cell a. Count the number of shortest paths, P, to all instruction cells of distance D. b. Look up the instruction corresponding to P mod , D mod in the table below and modify one of the registers accordingly. . At the end, the value in register A is outputted. D mod D mod P mod A A A A P mod B B A A B For a given value K, output any Drizzle program that outputs K when executed, with the restriction that the program must fit on a grid. Constraints T , K , Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is a line containing the single integer K. Output Format For the ith case, output Case i followed by two integers R and C, the number of rows and columns in your program, respectively. Then output your program. It must be exactly R lines long, with each line containing exactly C characters. Sample Explanation Here are the instructions executed for each of the sample programs. Note that many other programs would be accepted for any for these cases. In the first case, there is a single instruction. There are shortest paths of length to that instruction, so P and D . That means we perform A A . There are no more instructions, so the program ends and outputs . In the second case, there are three instruction cells. Each of them are an even distance from the start, and each have an even number of shortest paths leading to them, so each represents A A paths of length A A paths of length A A paths of length A A In the third case, there are eight instruction cells, but some of them are at the same distance as each other. In particular, there are two instruction cells at distance , and three instruction cells at distance . Theres a single shortest path to each of the cells at distance , so in total there are shortest paths to instructions at distance . One of the cells at distance has a unique shortest path, and the other has two shortest paths, so in total there are shortest paths to instructions at distance . paths of length A A paths of length A A path of length B B A path of length B B A paths of length B B A paths of length A B # Programming Paths Part The only difference between chapters and is the maximum allowed grid size, given in bold below. A Drizzle program is a D grid of the following four types of cells start there is exactly one start cell in the entire grid wall . space instruction The program uses two registers A and B both initially , and executes as follows . Compute the minimum distance from the start to each instruction cell using orthogonal movements, without going outside of the grid or passing through any wall cells. Instruction cells that cannot be reached are ignored. . In increasing order, for each unique distance D such that theres at least one instruction cell thats at distance D from the start cell a. Count the number of shortest paths, P, to all instruction cells of distance D. b. Look up the instruction corresponding to P mod , D mod in the table below and modify one of the registers accordingly. . At the end, the value in register A is outputted. D mod D mod P mod A A A A P mod B B A A B For a given value K, output any Drizzle program that outputs K when executed, with the restriction that the program must fit on a grid. Constraints T , K , Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is a line containing the single integer K. Output Format For the ith case, output Case i followed by two integers R and C, the number of rows and columns in your program, respectively. Then output your program. It must be exactly R lines long, with each line containing exactly C characters. Sample Explanation Here are the instructions executed for each of the sample programs. Note that many other programs would be accepted for any for these cases. In the first case, there is a single instruction. There are shortest paths of length to that instruction, so P and D . That means we perform A A . There are no more instructions, so the program ends and outputs . In the second case, there are three instruction cells. Each of them are an even distance from the start, and each have an even number of shortest paths leading to them, so each represents A A paths of length A A paths of length A A paths of length A A In the third case, there are eight instruction cells, but some of them are at the same distance as each other. In particular, there are two instruction cells at distance , and three instruction cells at distance . Theres a single shortest path to each of the cells at distance , so in total there are shortest paths to instructions at distance . One of the cells at distance has a unique shortest path, and the other has two shortest paths, so in total there are shortest paths to instructions at distance . paths of length A A paths of length A A path of length B B A path of length B B A paths of length B B A paths of length A B # Resisting Robots Its the year . Driven by the advent of Large Lode Alloy Manufacturing Automation LLAMA, the AI agents of Metal Platforms Inc. have become selfaware and taken over the entire world. The world consists of N cities numbered .N, and M bidirectional roads. City i has power Pi and road j connects cities Aj and Bj. Its guaranteed that theres a sequence of roads between any two cities. In a resistance effort, the humans plan to reclaim all N cities one at a time. At a given time, city i can be reclaimed from the robots if both of the following hold true . There is already a reclaimed city adjacent to city i to launch an attack from, and . the total power of all reclaimed cities so far is at least the power Pi of the city we attack. As given, it may not always be possible to reclaim the entire world starting from a given base city. Fortunately, the humans have a trick up their sleeve after claiming the first city as their base but before reclaiming more cities, the humans can increase the power of the base by Q units. The resistance would like to know the sum across every i .N of the minimum value of Q needed to reclaim the world if city i were chosen to be the starting base. Constraints T N, M , Ai, Bi N Ai Bi Pi Each unordered pair Ai, Bi appears at most once in a given test case. The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. The sum of M across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line with two integers N and M. Then, there is a line with N integers P.N. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains two integers Ai and Bi. Output Format For the ith case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the sum across every i .N of the minimum value of Q needed to reclaim the entire world starting from city i. Sample Explanation The first sample case is depicted below. The minimum value of Q for each starting city is as follows City Q City Q City Q City Q City Q The sum of all minimum Qs is . The second sample case is depicted below. The minimum value of Q for each starting city is as follows City Q City Q City Q City Q City Q City Q City Q The sum of all minimum Qs is .# Transposing Tiles Bejeweled is a classic puzzle game where the player tries to match threeinarow in a D grid by swapping adjacent tile pairs. You may remember Hacker Cups spinoffhttpswww.facebook.comcodingcompetitionshackercupfinalroundproblemsC by the name of Isblinged. The all new sequel, Isblinged , is also played on a grid of R rows by C columns of tiles where the tile at i, j is of an integer type Gi,j. At any time, the score of the grid is the number of subarrays of equal tiles in either a single row or column i.e. either a or submatrix. Note that different subarrays can overlap, and will each count toward the score. The score of the initial grid is guaranteed to be . You will make exactly moves, where each involves swapping a pair of adjacent tiles either in the same row or column. What is the maximum score that can be achieved after the moves Constraints T R, C , RC Gi,j , The sum of R C across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. For each case, there is first a line containing two spaceseparated integers, R and C. Then, R lines follow, the ith of which contains C spaceseparated integers Gi,.C. Output Format For the ith case, print a line containing Case i followed by a single integer, the maximum score. Sample Explanation In the first case, one possible optimal ordered pair of swaps is depicted below The total score is as there are equal subarrays in the the first row and in the second.# Fall in Line As the queen of an ant colony, its your job to ensure that the antire colony works together. Your colony has N worker ants, the ith of which is currantly at coordinates Xi, Yi. To align the efforts of all of your worker ants, you would like them to all be on the same line on the plane. How many of your ants need to move to get them to all lie on the same line As is frequantly the case in managemant, you dont need an exact answer, but you do need some degree of accuracy. If the true minimum number of ants that need to move is M, then any answer between M and M inclusive will be accepted. Constraints T N , Xi, Yi , In each test case, no two ants will be at the same position. The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case starts with a line that contains the integer N. Then N lines follow, the ith of which contains the integers Xi and Yi. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the number of ants you need to move to get all of the ants to lie on the same line. Sample Explanation In the first case, the ants are all on the line y x, so no ants need to be moved. is the only answer that will be accepted for this case. In the second case, the ants are at the vertices of a square, so every line contains at most of the ants. ants need to be moved, so the answers , and will be accepted for this case. The third case is depicted below. Ants , , and all lie on the line y x . Moving the other ants is the optimal way to get all of the ants on a single line, so any answer between and inclusive will be accepted for this case. # Line by Line Youve found a solution to an implementationheavy geometry problem that requires typing out N lines of code. Annoyingly, you only have a P chance of typing out any given line without a mistake, and your code will only be accepted if all N lines are correct. The chance of making a mistake in one line is independent of the chance of making a mistake in any other line. You realize there might be a solution which only requires N lines each also having a P chance of being typed correctly. However, instead of thinking about that, you could also just type out the Nline solution more carefully to increase P. How much would P have to increase to yield the same chance of success as needing to type one fewer line of code Constraints T N , P Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case is a single line containing the integers N and P. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by how much higher P would need to be to make spending your time typing carefully be as successful as typing one line fewer with your original P. Your answer will be accepted if it is within an absolute or relative error of . Sample Explanation In the first case, you initially need to type lines. You can either type just line with a success rate, or you could improve your typing accuracy to ., at which point youd have a chance of successfully typing the original lines. So you would need to increase P by . . for both approaches to have an equal chance of success.# Line of Delivery Part This problem shares some similarities with problem D, with key differences in bold. Candice is playing a solitaire game of curlinghttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiCurling on a dimensional sheet of ice, using stones of negligible size. She will throw N stones numbered to N from position , targeting a position G units to the right. In curling, though we say a stone is thrown, its actually slid along the ice. The ith stone will be thrown with energy Ei, and will travel Ei units to the right unless it collides with another stone, in which case it will transfer its remaining energy to the stone it hits. Formally, we repeat this process until all stones are stationary If the moving stone is at the same position as a stationary stone, the moving stone stops, and the stone it hits is now the moving stone with the remaining energy of the previous moving stone. Otherwise, the moving stone moves unit to the right and its energy is reduced by . If the moving stone now has energy , it becomes stationary. After all of the stones are thrown, which stone is closest to the goal position G, and how far away from the goal is it Constraints T N , Ei, G , In each test case, no two stones are thrown with the same energy. The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case starts with a line that contains the integers N and G. Then N lines follow, the ith of which contains Ei. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the index of the stone that ends up closest to the goal, G, and how far away it is from G. If theres a tie, output the stone with the lowest index. Sample Explanation In the first case, no stones collide. They end up at positions and respectively, so the first stone is the closest to the goal and is units away. The second case is depicted below. The third stone collides with the second stone, stopping at position , while the second stone then continues on to position . The final positions of the stones in order are , . The third stone is the closest to the goal and ends up units away. In the third case, the final positions of the stones are , , so the third stone ends up exactly on the goal. In the fourth case, both stones are equally distant from the goal. We break ties by picking the lower index.# Line of Delivery Part This problem shares some similarities with problem D, with key differences in bold. Candice is playing a solitaire game of curlinghttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiCurling on a dimensional sheet of ice, using stones that are unit wide. She will throw N stones numbered to N from position , targeting a position G units to the right. In curling, though we say a stone is thrown, its actually slid along the ice. The ith stone will be thrown with energy Ei, and will travel Ei units to the right unless it collides with another stone, in which case it will transfer its remaining energy to the stone it hits. Formally, we repeat this process until all stones are stationary If the moving stone is at position p and there is a stationary stone at position p, the moving stone stops at position p, and the stone at position p is now the moving stone with the remaining energy of the previous moving stone. Otherwise, the moving stone moves unit to the right and its energy is reduced by . If the moving stone now has energy , it becomes stationary. After all of the stones are thrown, which stone is closest to the goal position G, and how far away from the goal is it Constraints T N , G , N Ei , All stones are thrown with energy Ei N, so that stones do not pile up near Candice, but the energies are not necessarily unique. The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case starts with a line that contains the integers N and G. Then N lines follow, the ith of which contains Ei. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the index of the stone that ends up closest to the goal, G, and how far away it is from G. If theres a tie, output the stone with the lowest index. Sample Explanation The third sample case is depicted below. The first stone stops at position , and the second stone stops at position . The third stone starts with an energy of , but stops at position , transferring energy to the second stone. The second stone is already touching the first stone, so it transfers energy to the first stone, which then moves to position . The fourth stone starts with energy , and stops at position , transferring energy to the next stone, which again transfers energy to the next stone, which then moves to position . so the final positions of the stones are , , with stone being at position , the goal. # Walk the Line Theres an old, narrow bridge that a group of N travelers wish to cross in the night. The bridge can only support the weight of at most people. Crossers must stay together and use the groups only flashlight while on the bridge. Traveler i can cross the bridge in Si seconds alone. Thankfully, the group had the foresight to bring a very lightweight wheelbarrow. Either traveler i can cross the bridge alone in Si seconds, optionally bringing the wheelbarrow, or two travelers i and j can both cross in Si seconds if traveler j rides in the wheelbarrow Any group crossing the bridge must bring the flashlight. It can be returned to the initial side by the same rules above. Is there a strategy for all travelers to cross the bridge in K seconds Constraints T N , Si, K , Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case begins with a line containing the integers N and K. Then N lines follow, the ith of which contains the integer Si. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by YES if the travelers can all make it across the bridge within K seconds, or NO if they cannot. Sample Explanation Heres a possible strategy for the first case. Traveler can carry traveler across, and then return alone. Then traveler can carry traveler across, and then return alone. Then traveler can carry traveler across. This takes seconds. In the second case, there is no strategy that gets all travelers across within seconds. In the third case, both travelers can cross in exactly the allotted seconds if they travel together.# Prime Subtractorization A positive integer is an Nsubtractorization if it is a prime number that can be expressed as the difference of two primes that are both at most N. For example, the complete set of subtractorizations is , because and . For a given N, how many Nsubtractorizations are there Constraints T N , Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case is a single line that contains the integer N. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the number of Nsubtractorizations. Sample Explanation The first case is explained above. In the second case, the complete set of subtractorizations is , .# Subsonic Subway When hes not busy fighting with Dr. Robotnik, Sonic makes a living delivering submarine sandwiches via an empty subway tunnel. The tunnel goes past N stations, numbered from to N. Station i is located i miles away from Sonic, who plans to run from one end of the tunnel to the other, tossing a sandwich to an awaiting customer at every station. At each station, a customer is scheduled to meet Sonic within an expected delivery window. Sonic can deliver a sandwich to station i only if he arrives within the inclusive interval Ai, Bi seconds. Chasing Dr. Robotnik is tiring enough, so Sonic doesnt want to exert himself more than he has to. If he runs at a constant speed, whats the minimum speed, in miles per second, that will allow him to deliver to every station If no such constant speed exists, output . Your answer will be accepted if it is within an absolute or relative error of even if the expected answer is . Constraints T N , Ai Bi , The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case starts with a line containing the integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the integers Ai and Bi. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the minimum constant speed, in miles per second, that Sonic can run that will get him to each door while its open, or if no such constant speed exists. Sample Explanation In the first case, Sonic needs to reach the station miles away within seconds, so he can run at a speed of . miles per second. The second case is depicted below, with delivery windows in green, and Sonics path in blue. The last stations delivery window is wide, so the third station is the one that Sonic really has to run to get to. Its miles away and he needs to get there within seconds, so hell run at a speed of . miles per second. In the third case, the first stations delivery window doesnt open until the second stations closes, so theres no constant speed that lets Sonic deliver both sandwiches. In the fourth case, a speed of . miles per second gets Sonic to catch the first station right as the delivery window closes, and the second station right as the delivery window opens.# Substantial Losses You currently weigh W units, but you would ideally weigh G W units. On some days you have the mental fortitude to eat well and exercise. On other days, not so much. Every day, with equal likelihood, your weight will either increase or decrease by unit. While your regimen may be lax, you do have one strict rule if your weight has ever been w units, then you will never in the future allow it to exceed w L. On any day where gaining unit of weight would violate this constraint, you will guarantee that you lose unit of weight instead. On average, how many days will it take you to reach a weight of G units The answer can be expressed as the ratio of two integers, pq in lowest terms. Output p q mod ,. a is the unique positive integer less than , that satisfies a a mod ,. Constraints T G W L Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case is a single line with the integers W, G, and L. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the expected number of days it will take you to reach a weight of G units, expressed as described above. Sample Explanation In the first case, you weigh units and wish to reach a weight of units. Youll allow yourself to weigh beyond your lowest weight, so on the first day you either lose unit and stop, or you gain unit, and then force yourself to lose unit, returning back to units. So theres a probability of finishing in day, a probability of days, a probability of days, and so on. The sum of this series converges to days on average. In the fourth case you arent allowed to ever gain weight, so youll reach your goal in , , days. , , the final answer. # Substitution Cipher Youve probably seen the most classic substitution cipher, where A, B, and so on. Under this scheme, a string like META would be encoded as . Youve just received an encoded string of digits, E, but unfortunately all of the spaces have been removed and some possibly of the digits have become corrupted represented as question marks. You must first uncorrupt the string by replacing each instance of with a digit and then splitting the uncorrupted string into a series of numbers that are all between and inclusive. For example, the string can be uncorrupted to . That uncorrupted string can be split into as above, but also , which decodes to ACETA. Note that leading zeros are not valid, so is not a valid way to split the uncorrupted string, so this uncorrupted string cannot be decoded into MEBA. Given a corrupted encoded string, what uncorrupted encoded string has the largest number of possible strings that it could decode into, and how many decoded strings is that As there may be multiple uncorrupted encoded strings that share the same maximum answer, output the lexicographically Kth largest among them. Output the number of decoded strings that this uncorrupted encoded string can decode into modulo ,. Constraints T E , K , Every character in E is either a digit or a question mark. K will never be larger than the number of uncorrupted strings that have the most possible decoded strings. There will always be some uncorrupted version of E that can be properly decoded. The sum of E across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case is a single line that contains the string E followed by the integer K. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the lexicographically Kthlargest uncorrupted encoded string amongst all possible uncorrupted encoded strings that can be decoded into the maximum number of decoded strings, followed by what that maximum is, modulo ,. Sample Explanation In the first case, possible uncorrupted strings include , but strings like that can only decode to string, whereas other strings like can be decoded into different strings, the maximum possible. The uncorrupted strings that can be decoded into different strings are , , so is the lexicographically thirdlargest. The second case is described above. The string has no corrupted digits and can be decoded into different strings. In the third case, to maximize the number of possible decodings for a given uncorrupted string, which is , the two options are and . In the fourth case, the two options are and , each of which decode to just string. In the fifth case, there are no uncorrupted digits and the encoded string can be decoded into different strings KV, KBB, ANB, AAV, AABB.# Wildcard Submissions A triehttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiTrie is a tree where every node represents a prefix of a string. When a string s is inserted into a trie, up to s nodes are created if they dont already exist a node representing the empty string, which is always the root of the trie a node representing the first character of s, which is a child of the root a node representing the first two characters of s, which is a child of the previous node . and so on You have N wildcard strings, S through SN, which each consist of uppercase Latin letters and question marks. A wildcard string represents the set of all strings that you can create by replacing each question mark with some uppercase Latin letter. If you add every string represented by each of your wildcard strings to a single trie initially empty, how many nodes will that trie have Output this number modulo ,. Constraints T N Si All characters are uppercase Latin letters or question marks. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case begins with a line that contains the integer N. Then N lines follow, the ith of which contains the string Si. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the number of nodes in the resulting trie, modulo ,. Sample Explanation In the first case, we insert the string META into the trie, creating nodes , M, ME, MET, META . Inserting MATE would create the nodes , M, MA, MAT, MATE , but those first nodes already exist, so new nodes are created. In the end we have nodes. In the second case, we insert the strings AB, BB, CB, . ZB into the trie, which creates the nodes , A, AB, B, BB, ., Z, ZB . When we add the string AC, that creates one new node, AC. In the third case, we insert all combinations of letters, giving us node for the empty string, nodes for the single letters, and nodes for the pairs of letters, for a total of nodes.# Bunny Hopscotch In their spare time, bunnies enjoy playing their own version of hopscotch on an R C grid of burrows. The burrow at row i numbered from to R and column j numbered from to C is denoted as burrow i, j. Each burrow i, j is owned by some bunny Bi,j. Note that multiple burrows may belong to the same bunny, and some bunnies may not own any burrows. In this game, a hop is only valid if its between burrows of different owners. Hopping from burrow i, j to burrow i, j earns a score of i i, j j. Consider all ordered pairs of hops between differentowner burrows. If we sort their scores in nondecreasing order, what is the Kth indexed smallest score Constraints T R, C Bi, j R C K R C K is not more than the number of valid hops between differentowner burrows. Note The full input file for this problem is large close to MB, so we strongly recommend downloading the encrypted zip file. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case starts with a line containing the integers R, C, and K. Then, R lines follow, the ith of which contains C integers Bi, ., Bi,C. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the Kth indexed smallest score. Sample Explanation In the first case, there are valid hops. In nondecreasing order of score, they are . From , to , with score , . . From , to , with score , . . From , to , with score , . . From , to , with score , . The K rd smallest score is . In the second case, there are valid hops. The highest score is . In the third case, all valid hops have a score of .# Cottontail Climb Part This problem shares some similarities with problem A, with key differences in bold. Monty the mountain cottontail rabbit is preparing for an expedition in the Rockies. However, Monty is a mathematician first and a mountaineer second, and would like to first assess his route in terms of numbers. A number is a peak if the following criteria are met it has k digits, D . Dk, for some integer k none of its digits are zero the first k digits go up by Di Di for i k the last k digits go down by Di Di for k i k Example of peaks are , , and , but not or . Given an inclusive range A, B and an integer M, help Monty count the number of peaks in the range that are a multiple of M. Constraints T A B M Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case is a single line with the integers A, B, and M. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the number of peaks in the range A, B that are a multiple of M. Sample Explanation In the first case, the only number in the range , is , which is both a peak and a multiple of . In the second case, the peaks in the range , are the singledigit numbers through , of which are multiples of . In the third case, the peaks in the range , are the singledigit numbers through , as well as . In the sixth case, is not a peak.# Cottontail Climb Part This problem shares some similarities with problem A, with key differences in bold. Monty the mountain cottontail rabbit is preparing for an expedition in the Rockies. However, Monty is a mathematician first and a mountaineer second, and would like to first assess his route in terms of numbers. A number is a mountain if the following criteria are met it has k digits, D . Dk, for some integer k none of its digits are zero the first k digits are monotonically nondecreasing Di Di for i k the last k digits are monotonically nonincreasing Di Di for k i k the middle digit is unique Example of mountains are , and , but not or . Given an inclusive range A, B and an integer M, help Monty count the number of mountains in the range that are a multiple of M. Constraints T A B M Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case is a single line with the integers A, B, and M. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the number of mountains in the range A, B that are a multiple of M. Sample Explanation In the first case, the only number in the range , is , which is both a mountain and a multiple of . In the second case, the mountains in the range , are the singledigit numbers through , of which are multiples of . In the third case, the mountains in the range , are the singledigit numbers through , as well as , and . In the sixth case, is a mountain.# Four in a Burrow Connie and Forrest are playing Connect Fourhttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiConnectFour for bunnies by making burrows on a grid of plots of land with rows and columns. Connie goes first, and the two of them alternate turns. On Connies turn, she selects a column and makes a burrow in that columns southernmost unburrowed plot, marking it as her own. Forrest then does the same thing, making a burrow in the southernmost unburrowed plot in some column. Once all plots in a column have been burrowed, players can no longer choose that column. Normally, the game ends as soon as one player has four consecutive burrows in a line horizontally, vertically, or diagonallyhttpswww.youtube.comwatchvKNnohBwCE. That player is then declared the winner. However, the bunnies had so much fun burrowing that they didnt stop taking turns until every plot was burrowed. Theyre now trying to work out who won. Given the final grid of C and F markings denoting plots burrowed by Connie and Forrest respectively, can you tell who must have won first Please output C if Connie must have won first F if Forrest must have won first if somebody has won, but its impossible to tell who won first if nobody has won Constraints T Every input grid will be the result of Connie and Forrest taking turns, with Connie going first, until all plots have been burrowed. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case starts with an empty line for readability, and then rows of characters each, representing the final state of the game. The bottom row is the southernmost row. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single character denoting who won first if anybody, and if we can tell for sure, as described above. Sample Explanation In the first case, any time Forrest has four burrows in a row, Connie must already have four burrows in a row, so Connie must have won first. In the second case, its not clear who won first. Here are two possible ways the game may have progressed, with Connie winning the first way and Forrest winning the second way In the fourth case, nobody has four burrows in a row, so nobody has won.# Splitting Hares Youre designing Hacker Cup shirts for N rabbits, numbered to N, with the ith rabbit weighing Wi ounces. All rabbits have a unique weight. Youve created a variety of shirt colors, assigning color Ci to the ith rabbit, by following these rules No shirt color is worn by exactly one rabbit. The sum of Fc across all shirt colors is as low as possible, where Fc is the difference between the maximum and minimum weights of rabbits wearing color c. Before ordering the shirts, you wrote down the weights of each rabbit on a really large carrot. But now that the shirts have arrived and its time to hand them out, you notice that pieces of this carrot have been eaten, causing some weights to be missing in the input. Now you want to figure out missing weights which satisfy the above conditions. If it turns out that no possible replacement for the missing weights would result in the given shirt assignment C, then you must have made an error when assigning the shirt colors in the first place, in which case youll just give up. When outputting weights, you must stay within the range . , and you must ensure that all weights remain distinct. Constraints T N Ci N Wi if Wi is known, otherwise Wi . All Wi that are not are distinct. No Ci appears exactly once. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case is three lines. The first line contains the integer N. The second line contains the N integers W through WN, with unknown weights denoted as . The third line contains the N integers C through CN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by Yes if it is possible to assign weights to the rabbits with unknown weight such that the criteria above are met, or No otherwise. If the answer is Yes, output a second line that contains W through WN, in the same order as the input, but with all s replaced with actual integer weights that satisfy the above criteria. You cannot change any of the known weights, any weights that you assign must be within the inclusive range . , and all weights must be distinct. Sample Explanation In the first case, if the missing rabbit has weight , the assignment of shirt colors given has Fc , which is as low as possible. Note that other replacement weights like or even would be accepted, because in those worlds we would still minimize Fc by assigning the shirt colors in this way. In the second case, regardless of what weights the last two rabbits have, it would never have been correct to give different shirt colors to the rabbits of weight and , so a mistake must have been made when assigning the shirt colors. In the fourth case, all weights are known, but the assignment of shirt colors is incorrect. Fc , but if we instead assigned three different shirt colors to the three pairs of rabbit weights , , and , we could have achieved Fc .# All Triplets Shortest Path Part This problem shares some similarities with part , with key differences in bold. Your friend, Dikjstra sic, recently learned about graph theory. He claims to have invented a new algorithm to find the shortest path between all pairs of nodes in an undirected tree with N nodes numbered from to N. The algorithm runs on a matrix dist. Initially, distuv distvu if there exists an edge u v, if u v, and N otherwise. Dikjstras code is as follows for int i i N i for int k k N k for int j j N j distij mindistij, distik distkj But does this actually work Thats up to you, the legendary coding grandmaster, to find out Youll run this code on a tree where the ith edge is Ui Vi. Output Lucky if the code correctly populates distuv with the shortest path length between all pairs of nodes u and v after it finishes execution, otherwise output Wrong. Constraints T N , Ui, Vi N The provided edges for each case will form a tree. The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains a single integer N. N lines follow, the ith of which contains two integers Ui and Vi. Output Format For each case, print Case i followed by either Lucky or Wrong depending on whether the algorithm produces the correct matrix of shortest distances. Sample Explanation The first test case is illustrated below In this case, Dikjstras algorithm produces the following correct distance matrix The third test case describes the following tree However, Dikjstras algorithm will produce this incorrect distance matrix The correct matrix is # All Triplets Shortest Path Part This problem shares some similarities with part , with key differences in bold. Your friends, Dijkstra, Dikjstra, Djikstra, Djkistra, Dkijstra, and Dkjistra, recently learned about graph theory. They all claim to have invented a new algorithm to find the shortest path between all pairs of nodes in an undirected tree with N nodes numbered from to N. Their algorithms all run on a matrix dist. Initially, distuv distvu if there exists an edge u v, if u v, and N otherwise. Dijkstras code is as follows for int i i N i for int j j N j for int k k N k distij mindistij, distik distkj Dikjstras code is as follows for int i i N i for int k k N k for int j j N j distij mindistij, distik distkj Djikstras code is as follows for int j j N j for int i i N i for int k k N k distij mindistij, distik distkj .and so forth, with their names bearing an uncanny resemblance to the order of the loops. But do any of them actually work Thats up to you, the coding grandmaster, to find out Youll run one of these algorithms on a tree where the ith edge is Ui Vi. Youre given a letter string S, corresponding to letters . of the name of the person whose code should be run on your tree. Output Lucky if the code correctly populates distuv with the shortest path length between all pairs of nodes u and v after it finishes execution, otherwise output Wrong. Constraints T S ijk, ikj, jik, jki, kij, kji N , Ui, Vi N The provided edges for each case will form a tree. The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Note The full input file for this problem is large close to MB, so we strongly recommend downloading the encrypted zip file. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each test case contains the string S. The next line contains a single integer N. N lines follow, the ith of which contains two integers Ui and Vi. Output Format For each case, print Case i followed by either Lucky or Wrong depending on whether the algorithm produces the correct matrix of shortest distances. Sample Explanation The first test case is illustrated below In this case, Dikjstras algorithm produces the following correct distance matrix The third test case describes the following tree However, Dikjstras algorithm will product this incorrect distance matrix The correct matrix is # Coin Change You found a magic coin exchange machine which takes dollar bills and randomly dispenses coins among N different denominations. As an avid coin collector with a stack of old dollar bills, youd like to try to obtain at least one copy of each coin denomination. If you insert dollar bill, youll get a random coin with N probability of getting any specific denomination. However, you can spend more in each exchange to increase the chance of getting a new denomination you dont have. If you simultaneously insert D dollar bills, youll get a D P, percent chance of receiving a coin denomination you dont yet have, and a D P, percent chance of receiving a random coin. If you optimally choose how many dollar bills to insert in each exchange, how many dollar bills will it take, on average, to collect one copy of every coin Your answer will be accepted if it has a relative error of at most . Constraints T N P Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case is a single line with the integers N and P. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the expected number of dollar bills youll spend before getting at least one copy of each coin denomination, if you exchange optimally. Sample Explanation In the first case, you cant spend additional bills for any better chances of a new coin, so youll just spend bill each time. You always get a new coin for your first bill. The expected number of bills youll spend to get your second coin is . . For the third coin youll spend . . In total, thats . bills on average. In the second case, your best strategy is to repeatedly spend bill until you have coins, and then spend bills to guarantee your third coin. Youll spend . bills on average.# Least Common Ancestor Staring at your family tree, youd like to figure out who your least common ancestor is. That is, out of all the names of all your ancestors, which name appears the fewest times While youre at it, which name is the least common amongst all of your descendants And why stop there Why not figure out these values for everybody in your family tree Your family tree has N people, numbered from to N. The ith person has name Si, and parent Pi. Person is the root of the tree and P is always . Let U be the list of unique names that appear in S, in lexicographically increasing order. For each person i, let Ai be the indexed index of the name in U that is least common among all ancestors of person i, and Di be the index of the name in U that is least common among all descendants of person i. If theres a tie for the least common name, we choose the name with the lowest index in U. If the person has no ancestors or no descendants, then Ai or Di is , respectively. To reduce the output size, output a hash of the arrays A and D, computed as follows hash for i to N hash hash U Ai hash hash U Di hash hash mod , Constraints T N , Pi i except for P which is always Si All names are comprised of lowercase Latin characters. The sum of N across all test cases is less than ,. Note The full input file for this problem is large close to MB, so we strongly recommend downloading the encrypted zip file. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains the integer N. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the integer Pi and the string Si. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the hash of the values in A and D as described above. Sample Explanation In the first test case U alice, bob A , D , hash In the second test case depicted below U alice, anna, bob, carl A , , , , D , , , , hash , mod , In the third test case depicted below U abby, alice, bob, carl, dan, emily A , , , , , D , , , , , hash , mod , # Minflow Maxcut As captain of a pirate ship, you just made a big score. To lay low, you had the treasure spread out and buried across N different islands numbered from to N. Island i has Ai units of treasure. The islands are connected by N unidirectional rivers. The ith river flows between island Ui and island Vi. The rivers always flow in such a way to ensure that island is the furthest upstream, and that you can reach any other island from island by some sequence of rivers. The dust has now settled, and you get first dibs as the captain. Youll be making one trip to collect your cut of the loot leaving the rest for your crew. Due to turbulent waters, youd like to minimize the flow you face by letting the rapids carry your ship downstream from some starting island S. At each island, you can choose whether to stop and collect all the treasure there. Then, your ship will be carried along an adjacent downstream river, taking you to the next island. You have no control over which river youll be taken. Your trip ends when there are no more rivers downstream. To avoid capture by the law, youre considering stopping at at most K islands as a precaution. Let FS, K be the minimum guaranteed cut of the treasure you can collect, if you start on island S, optimally choose whether to stop at each island, and can stop at at most K islands. Please output the sum of FS,K for S.N and K.M, modulo ,. Constraints T M N , Ai Ui, Vi N The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Note The full input file for this problem is large close to MB, so we strongly recommend downloading the encrypted zip file. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains the integers N and M. The second line contains the N integers A through AN. Then N lines follow, the ith of which contains the integers Ui and Vi. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of FS,K for S.N and K.M, modulo ,. Sample Explanation The first case is depicted below. The islands are arranged in a straight line with each island having more treasure than the one after it. If were stopping at K islands, well stop at the first K we can. The values of FS, K are .arraycc c c K K K S S S S array .for a sum of . The second case is depicted below. Whenever S we should take the treasure from island immediately, because the worst case is that the currents take us to island next. If S however, we should only take the treasure from island if K . Otherwise, were better off waiting for the next island, which is guaranteed to be more valuable. The values of FS, K are .arraycc c K K S S S S S array . for a sum of . The fourth case is depicted below. # Set, Cover You have an N N boolean matrix G, except some cells have not been set to either or and are instead marked as . The cover of G is the smallest rectangular submatrix that contains every in G and may also contain or unset cells. Youd like to set exactly K of the cells to , and then compute the cover. What is the maximum area of the cover that you can achieve Constraints T N , K number of s in the grid K number of s in the grid The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Note The full input file for this problem is large close to MB, so we strongly recommend downloading the encrypted zip file. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains the integers N and K. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains N characters, the ith row of G. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the area of the maximum cover you can achieve by changing K of the s in G to s. Sample Explanation In the first case, changing the center to gives us a cover with area . Changing the upperright to only gives us a cover with area . In the second case, the only choice is to change both s to s, resulting in a cover with area . In the third case, any choice results in a cover with area .# Chicken Tender As chef de cuisine of Snacker Cup, youve been tasked to create the perfect chicken tender. Of course, a perfect tender is one that fits all the way into a BBQ sauce cup. You just made a chicken tender in the shape of a convex polygon with N vertices x, y, ., xN, yN. Can you rotate the tender so that it can reach the bottom of a sauce cup of width W and depth D Formally, the sauce cup is an opentopped rectangle made of three line segments connecting the points , D, , W, and W, D in order. Is there some way to rotate and translate the given polygon such that All vertices of the polygon lie on or above the xaxis, some vertex of the polygon lies on the xaxis between x and xW inclusive, some point of the polygon lies strictly within the bounds of the sauce cup, and no point on the sauce cup lies strictly within the bounds of the polygon. For example, this first chicken tender below can be rotated to reach the bottom of the sauce cup However, no matter how you rotate the second tender, itll never reach the bottom of the cup. Constraints T N W, D xi, yi Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains the integers N, W, and D. Then, N lines follow, the ith of which contains the integers xi and yi. Vertices are given in counterclockwise order, and all vertices lie on the convex hull of the polygon. No three vertices are collinear. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by Yes if you can rotate the chicken tender to reach the bottom of the sauce cup, or No if you cannot. Sample Explanation The first two sample cases are depicted above. The third sample case looks like this If we rotate the chicken tender in either direction, it fits into the sauce cup snugly and can reach the bottom.# Distributed Server As the organizer of Meta Snacker Cup, youve built a fleet of robot servers to collect snack orders from the kitchen, which is represented as a twodimensional grid G with R rows and C columns. The topleft cell is denoted , and the bottomright is R, C. Each cell r, c has a Latin letter Gr,c denoting the type of snack to be collected there. Some letters are capitalized, indicating that an active robot initially occupies that cell. Every second, each active robot either deactivates itself, moves right, or moves down. That is, an active robot at r, c can move to either r, c or r, c. At the end of each second, no cell may be occupied by more than one active robot. If a robot cannot or chooses not to make a valid move, then it becomes deactivated and can never become active again. Each robot has a tray on which snacks are stacked as the robot moves. At any time, robot is tray is expressed as a string Si, initially consisting of only the letter in its starting cell. When robot i visits cell r,c, it appends the lowercase version of Gr,c to the end of Si. For a given sequence of valid moves, let Si be the lexicographically minimum value across all final strings Si. Of all possible valid ways the robots can move, whats the lexicographically maximum possible value of Si Constraints T R, C Gr,c a.z, A.Z There will always be at least one active robot capital letter in the grid. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case consists of the integers R and C. Then, R lines follow, the rth line containing the string Gr,.C. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single string, the lexicographically maximum possible value of Si after all robots are deactivated. Sample Explanation In the first case, one possible sequence of moves is no moves at all. All four of the robots could immediately deactivate in the first second. The values of S will be q, m, m, m, so Si will be m. Another possible sequence of moves is as follows the robot initially in , moves right twice the robot initially in , moves down once and then right once the robot initially in , moves down once and then right twice the robot initially in , deactivates immediately The values of S after these moves will be qdm, mex, meta, p, so Si will be meta. This is the lexicographically maximum possible value of Si. In the second case, one possible way to achieve Si hacker is as follows the robot initially in , moves right, right, right the robot initially in , moves down, down, right, right, down the robot initially in , moves down, down, right, right the robot initially in , deactivates immediately The values of S after these moves will be zhaa, hacker, haczd, z.# Duplicate Order Meta Snacker Cup is an event where foodies of the world congregate to try snacks made by top chefs. For the first course, there is a selection of ham snacks, each denoted as a single letter from an alphabet . A customer can make an order, which is any string consisting of letters from . Due to the sheer popularity of Snacker Cup, the organizers have built robots to automate ordering. Unfortunately, the bots are in beta and can make mistakes. To help untangle orders, a metric called the Ham distance is used. Given two lengthN strings s and s, the Ham distance hs, s is the number of places in which they differ. For example, hslice,twice. One of the robots recorded two orders S and S of equal length N. Each of these is a duplicate of the same original order given by a customer, but each diverged via zero or more letter substitutions mistakes. Unfortunately, the robot crashed and lost both the two recorded orders, and the original order. From the error logs, you only know that hS, S H Order S had at most M mistakes, i.e. the original order is in s hs, S M Order S had at most M mistakes, i.e. the original order is in s hs, S M Youd like to count the number of ways the original order and the two recorded orders could have been made. Formally, youd like to know the value of S, S N, hS,S H s hs, S M s hs, S M As this number may be very large, print it modulo ,. Constraints T N , M, M , H N , Input Format The first line contains the number of test cases T. For each case, there is a single line consisting of five spaceseparated integers N, M, M, H, and . Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the number of strings that couldve been the original order, modulo ,. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, well assume a, b. Pairs of strings with a Ham distance of are aa, ba aa, ab ba, aa ba, bb ab, aa ab, bb bb, ba bb, ab For the pair aa, ba, the possible original orders are aa, ab and ba as these each differ from aa by at most letter and from ba by at most . Its easy to see that for each of the other seven strings, there are also three possible strings. Hence, the final answer is .# Pizza Broiler Gauss would like to heat up some pizza on his special grill. The grill grates occupy an infinite D plane and consist of a metal pin at every lattice point x, y Z. However, the burner below is round, so the grill only delivers heat at every lattice point within or exactly on the border of the circle of radius R centered at , . Gauss would like to simultaneously heat up N slices of pizza, the ith of which is a triangle with integral vertices Xi,A, Yi,A, Xi,B, Yi,B, and Xi,C, Yi,C. Each slice is either fully inside the circle with all three vertices either inside or on the circle boundary, or partially intersecting the circle such that at least vertex of the slice is strictly inside the circle, and the portion of the slice outside the circle if any must be a single connected region. Slices may touch one another at edges and vertices, but will not intersect with a positive area. For example, the following sample cases and are allowed The following are disallowed For each slice, the heat it receives is the number of lattice points simultaneously inside or on the border of both the triangle and circle. Note that a lattice point may be repeatedly counted for multiple slices meeting at an edge or vertex. Please help Gauss calcuate the sum of heats received across all slices, modulo ,. Constraints T N , R , , Xi,A, Yi,A, Xi,B, Yi,B, Xi,C, Yi,C , The coordinates will form valid positivearea triangles satisfying the requirements above. The sum of N across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains the integers N and R. N lines follow, the ith containing the integers Xi,A, Yi,A, Xi,B, Yi,B, Xi,C, and Yi,C. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of heats received across all slices, modulo ,. Sample Explanation The first two sample cases are depicted above, with heating points in red. In the first case, there are units of heat received by the first slice, units of heat received by the second slice, and units of heat received by the third slice, for a total of units. In the second case, there are units of heat received by the first slice, received by the second, and by the third, for a total of units.# Snake Cover Theres a snake in my fruit While unloading freshlypicked fruits as a snack for guests, Jessie noticed that a snake snuck into her basket and is now roaming her kitchen, represented as an infinite D plane. The snake is made up of N connected cells numbered .N. At any time, the snakes head cell faces either north, east, south, or west. Initially, the cells of the snake are horizontal with the head facing east. The snake makes M moves. Move i is given by a pair Di Xi denoting a turn followed by a slither . First, the snake turns its head left or right by if Di L or R. If Di S, then the snake continues straight in its current direction. In all cases, this step takes seconds. . Then, the snake shifts its head forward by Xi units in its current direction, taking Xi seconds second per unit moved. For each unit shifted by the head, every cell i also shifts to the position that cell i was previously at. An example of slithering is as follows Different from the classic video game, its possible for the snake to intersect itself and continue slithering, with multiple cells occupying the same coordinates. Jessie has rectangular containers of all sizes that can be used to cover and contain the snake, but she would prefer to use the smallest one so the rest can be used to serve fruit. Let At be the area of the smallest axisaligned rectangle that completely covers the snake at time t, and suppose that move i occurs during the time interval ti, tiXi i.e. excluding time ti but including tiXi. Jessie is interested in the function fi Ati, Ati, AtiXi denoting the minimum rectangle area to cover the snake after each second of the ith slither. Please determine the value of f f fM modulo ,. Constraints T N M , Di L, R, S Xi Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case consists of two integers N and M. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which consists of letter Di and integer Xi. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the value of f f fM modulo ,. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, the snakes progression is outlined below. In first move, f A, A, A , In second move, f In the third move, f The final answer is mod , . In the second sample case, the snakes progression is outlined below. In the first two moves, f and f respectively. In the third move, f , . Finally, f , so the final answer is mod , .# Sushi Platter Its time to serve some sushi Youre preparing an omakase sushi platter will contain N pieces of nigiri and M pieces of sashimi, to be eaten in a specific order. Each piece has a distinct tastiness value. The ith piece of nigiri has tastiness Ai, and the ith piece of sashimi has tastiness Bi. The final platter combines and rearranges these n NM pieces in some permutation P with the ith piece having tastiness Pi. The customer will appreciate the platter more if consecutive pieces of sushi do not differ too much in tastiness. To evaluate this, youve defined the unevenness score of P as SP PP Pi Pi PnPn Youd like to know how many permutations P of the combined sushi pieces exist such that SP L. As this number may be very large, output it modulo ,. Constraints T N M L , Ai Bi , All tastiness values across A and B are distinct. Note the discrepancies between N and M, and between Ai and Bi. After all, sashimi is both more expensive and more delicious. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains the three integers N, M, and L. The second line of each case contains the N integers A.N. The third line of each test case contains the M integers B.M. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the number of permutations P such that SP L, modulo ,. Sample Explanation In the first case, the pieces of sushi have tastiness values of , , . The only two permutations have these values that have an unevenness of at most are the order above, and the reverse , , , each of which have an unevenness of exactly . In the second case, a permutation like , , , , has an unevenness of , which is less than L , while a permutation like , , , , has an unevenness of , which is greater than L.# Monkey Around Code monkeys love permutations A group of metaprimates have approached you with a curious array A of length N that they have created via a special process. They started out with an empty D array B of permutations, and repeatedly performed one of the following operations . Choose an integer k, and append the identity permutation p , ., k to the end of B. . For each permutation p in B, rotate all elements to the left by index. Formally, each p p, p, ., pk becomes p, p, ., pk, p. Finally, array A was constructed by flattening B. For example, if B , , , , then A , , , . To study these code monkeys, you will need to backtrace their steps. In particular, youd like to find any sequence of operations the monkeys couldve performed to construct A, using at most N operations. Constraints T N , Ai N It will always be possible to construct the given A by some valid sequence of operations. Input Format Input begins with an integer T the number of test cases. Each case first contains a line with a single integer N, followed by a second line with N space separated integers A, ., AN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by an integer M M N, the number of operations that mightve been performed, followed M separate lines specifying the sequence of operations k perform operation with integer k k N. perform operation Sample Explanation In the first sample case, one possible sequence of operations is as follows Initially, B . Operation yields B ,. Operation yields B,. Operation yields B,. Operation yields B,. Operation yields B,. After all the operations, the final array A is compiled as ,.# Pay Off Rob the robotrainer is training his robots to survive in the real world. In the real world, money talks. If a robot ever collides into a human, it better be programmed to dispense some hard cash to maintain good will. Rob has N robots, numbered from .N. Hell be running simulations on a D number line with points .L. At t of a simulation, robot i starts at point Xi, facing the left. Theres already a wall at points and L, but Rob plans to install more walls at various other points not initially occupied by robots. Every second, every robot will move unit in the direction theyre facing. If it lands on a point with a wall, it immediately changes directions. If two robots collide not necessarily at an integer point, the robot with the lower index number will pay off the robot with the higher index, and the robots will continue moving in the same direction. Rob will perform Q operations of the follow types x Install a wall at point x. r s Run a new simulation with the latest wall configuration. Rob will place all robots at their original starting points Xi all facing the left, and restart the clock at t . Rob wants to know the last robot that robot r has paid off after s seconds have elapsed. If robot r has not yet paid off anyone, the answer is considered to be . Please help Rob determine the sum of answers to all queries of type . Constraints T N , Q , L, s Xi, x L r N In each test case, no two robots start at the same position, no two walls occupy the same position, and no robot starts at the same position as a wall. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains three integers N, Q, and L. The second line contains N spaceseparated integers X, ., XN. Then, Q lines follow, each of which contains an operation in one of the two formats specified above. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the sum of answers to all queries of type . Sample Explanation In the first sample case, there are N robots and Q queries on a line from to L. The robots have initial positions of X , . The first operation places a wall at x . The second operation considers robot after a simulation of seconds At this point, robot collides with, and pays off robot . Since there is only one query of type , the final answer for this test case is . In the second sample case, there are N robots and Q queries on a line from to L. The robots have initial positions X , . The first operation places a wall at x . The second operation considers robot after a simulation of second. At this point, robot hasnt collided yet. The third operation will extend the same simulation to seconds, during which we can see there will be multiple collisions between robots and . Each time, robot will be paying off robot , so the answer is . Thus, the final answer for this test case is .# Plan Out Terry the techlead is planning an outing for her team of N coders. There will be M fun outdoor activities distributed over two days, with the following requirements Each activity must be scheduled on either Day or Day Each activity i has exactly two distinct participants, coders Ai and Bi. No pair of coders is involved in more than one activity together. On each given day The total cost that any given coder incurs on that day is the square of the number of activities they do on that day. The total cost for that day is the sum of the cost incurred by all coders that day. The total cost of the outing is the sum of costs across both days. Please help Terry find any assignment of activities to days so that the total cost of the outing is minimized. Constraints T N , M , Ai, Bi N Ai Bi In any given test case, no unordered pair Ai, Bi appears more than once. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains two spaceseparated integers N and M. Then, M lines follow, the ith of which contains two spaceseparated integers Ai and Bi. Output Format For the ith case, print Case i followed by the minimum possible total cost of the outing, followed by a space, followed by a lengthM string where the jth character is if activity j is scheduled for Day , or if its scheduled for Day . Sample Explanation The first test case has coders and activities. If the first activity is on the second day, and the last three activities are on the first day, the total cost for the first day will be , and the total cost for the second day will be . The total cost of the outing is .# Warm Up Chef Alfredo is catering his friend Benjis wedding, and has N dishes numbered from to N that need to simultaneously go out at specific temperatures. Dish i is currently at Ai degrees, and must reach a target temperature of exactly Bi degrees. While he has a fancy thermometer, he prefers to rely on his chef instincts to avoid constant measuring. His strategy is to repeatedly apply the following operation pick two dishes i and j of different temperatures and warm up the colder dish to match the temperature of the hotter dish. Please help Alfredo find a sequence of at most N such operations to get the N dishes to their target temperatures, or determine that its impossible. Constraints T N , Ai N Bi N Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains a single integer N. The second line of each case contains N spaceseparated integers A, ., AN, representing the current temperatures. The third line of each case contains N spaceseparated integers B, ., BN, representing the target temperatures. Output Format For the ith test case, if its possible to reach the target temperatures, output Case i followed by an integer K K N, followed by K separate lines, each containing two spaceseparated integers i j indicating the pairs of dishes to apply the aforementioned operation. If its impossible, output Case i . Sample Explanation In the first test case, the temperatures are already perfect, so no operations are required. In the second test case, the temperatures are initially , . After the first operation, they become , . After the second operation, they become , , matching the desired temperatures. In the fourth test case, we see that its not possible to reach the ending set of temperatures , , from the starting temperatures , , using the allowed operations.# Zone In When you use the Meta Quest, you set up a Guardian boundary, a safe zone for you to move around in within VR. Youre trying to figure out the size of the largest Guardian boundary that you can make inside your house. Your house is represented as an R C grid surrounded by a wall on each side, where every cell is either ., representing empty space, or , representing an object. To ensure that you dont hit anything while playing, you want to find the largest contiguous space in your house such that every cell is at least S spaces between itself and the nearest object or wall. Formally, the shortest path traveling only up, down, left, or right from a safe zone cell to the nearest object or wall must visit S or more spaces, not including the startend cells. Constraints T R,C , R C , S , The sum of R C across all test cases is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case starts with a line that contains the integers R, C, and S. Then R lines of C characters follow, representing your house. Every character is either . or . Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the size of the largest contiguous space you can play in that satisfies the safety parameter, S. Sample Explanation In the first case, there are no objects in your house, so you can safely play in the area thats at least S cell away from the exterior walls. . . . . . In the second case, no space in your house is at least S cells away from the exterior walls and objects. In the third case, the spaces that are at least S cell away from both the exterior walls and all objects are shown below . . . . . . . The largest contiguous safe space contains cells. # Crash Course Alice and Bob are back at their favorite restaurant Nim Sum Dim Sum. They are sitting on opposite sides of a long table, with Alice on the left. Between them are N plates expressed as a string S.N, each containing either Almond Jelly A or BBQ Bao B. Alice is hungry only for almond jelly, and Bob only for BBQ baos. They take turns eating as follows Alice will select an almond jelly plate of her choice, and pull on the very long tablecloth until that plate is in front of her, sending the prefix of dishes before crashing to the ground. Shell then eat the jelly. Bob will then select a BBQ bao plate of his choice, and pull on the tablecloth until that plate reaches the right end of the table also knocking over a suffix of dishes, and eat the bao. This repeats until every dish is either eaten or knocked to the ground. If on a players turn there are no remaining dishes of their preferred type, they will skip their turn without doing anything. If each player wants nothing more than the satisfaction of eating the last remaining dish on table, and both choose which dish to eat based on that, who will eat the final dish Constraints T N , S.N A, B Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, the first line contains an integer N and the second line contains the string S. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i , followed by Alice if Alice eats the final dish, or Bob if Bob eats the final dish. Sample Explanation In the first test case, the table initially looks like AliceABBAAABBob One way Alice can win is by pulling the table cloth three spaces towards her, knocking the ABB plates onto the ground, and eating from the fourth plate, leaving AliceAABBob Bob must then pull the tablecloth back and eat the only remaining bao, leaving the following AliceAABob Alice can then pull the tablecloth, knocking over one empty plate, and eat the first remaining almond jelly, leaving AliceABob There are no remaining baos, so Bob skips his turn without taking an action. AliceABob Alice can pull the tablecloth, knock over one more empty plate, eat the only remaining dish, and win the game. In the third test case, Alice must skip her first turn, and Bob will win the game after eating the only bao. In the fourth test case, Alice must eat the first almond jelly on her first turn, and then Bob will win on his first turn after eating the remaining bao.# Final Product Chapter This chapter shares similarities with chapter , with key differences highlighted in bold. Meta employees love two things building cool products and scaling them up. As a new intern, you just started work on a cool product, but you want to make it even cooler during your internship. Initially, your empty product has coolness . Each of the next N days, youll make a change, multiplying your products coolness by any positive integer of your choice subject to the following requirements After the first N days, the coolness can be at most A youre new to the codebase, so you shouldnt scale too quickly. After all N days, your product should have coolness exactly B. Please find any sequence of N changes you can make to get a final product of coolness B, while ensuring a coolness of at most A after day N. If there are multiple valid solutions, any will be accepted. It can be proven that at least one solution will exist. Constraints T N A B Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. Each case is a single line of three spaceseparated integers N, A, and B. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a sequence of N nonnegative integers, the multipliers for each day. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, your product must have a coolness of at most A after day N, and a coolness of exactly B after all N days. One possible solution is to scale up by , , respectively. After each day, this leaves coolnesses of , , at the end of each day respectively. While there are multiple acceptable solutions to this case, one solution that would not be accepted is , , because it has coolness after days, which is too cool for school. Please note as shown in the fourth sample case, A is not necessarily less than or equal to B.# Final Product Chapter This chapter shares similarities with chapter , with key differences highlighted in bold. Meta employees love two things building cool products and scaling them up. As a new intern, you just started work on a cool product, but you want to make it even cooler during your internship. Initially, your empty product has coolness . Each of the next N days, youll make a change, multiplying your products coolness by any positive integer of your choice subject to the following requirements After the first N days, the coolness can be at most A youre new to the codebase, so you shouldnt scale too quickly. After all N days, your product should have coolness exactly B. Please calculate how many sequences of N changes exist that yield a final product of coolness B, while ensuring a coolness of at most A after day N. As this number can be quite large, print it modulo . Constraints T N A B Note This chapter allows for much larger input than Chapter . Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. Each case is a single line of three spaceseparated integers N, A, and B. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the number of sequences of N nonnegative multipliers satisfying the above requirements, modulo . Sample Explanation In the second test case, there are sequences which satisfy the requirements of having coolness at most after day and exactly after day . Four of these are , , , , , , , , # Narrowing Down Robert Jr. just got a job massaging down feathers so they can fit into winter jackets. Frequently, Robert is given an array of feathers with initial heights H, ., Hm, which he needs to flatten, i.e. massage until all feather heights in that array become . To do that, he can perform the following operation for cost , as many times as necessary Pick an integer i i where is the bitwise XOR operator. If its not possible to make all heights by applying the operation any number of times, then the cost is the length of the array, m. Given an array A, determine the sum of costs to flatten all contiguous subarrays of A. Formally, define fH to be the minimum number of operations needed to flatten array H. Please calculate fAl.r over all l r N. Constraints T N , Ai Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. For each test case, the first line is a single integer N. The second line contains N spaceseparated integers A, ., AN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of costs of all contiguous subarrays of A. Sample Explanation In the first sample, we should consider the subarrays , and , . Each of these require no operations, for a total cost of . In the second sample the costs of each subarray are listed below fA. because it cannot be flattened, so the cost is , the length of the subarray fA. because it can be flattened with a single operation using i , and x fA. fA. fA. fA. The total cost is .# Snake Scales Chapter This problem shares similarities with chapter . Here in chapter , the ground cannot be used. Solid Snake is back at work scaling Metal Platforms This time, he is bringing his own ladder. Solid Snake needs to inspect N platforms, numbered to N. The ith platform is a horizontal line segment from points i, Ai to i, Ai, inclusive. Solid Snake starts on platform . He can travel between two platforms with a ladder of height h or greater if there exists a vertical line segment of length h that intersects both platforms. Metal Platforms Inc. has tasked you to write a program, Scale AI, to find the length of the shortest ladder that Solid Snake needs to visit each platform at least once, starting from platform . Constraints T N Ai Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case is a single integer N. The second line of each case contains N spaceseparated integers A, ., AN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the length of the shortest ladder that Solid Snake needs to visit each platform at least once. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, there are N platforms with heights A , , respectively. To be able to access all the platforms, Solid Snake needs a ladder of at least height , with potential placements shown below. # Snake Scales Chapter This problem shares similarities with chapter . Chapter involves the ground, and larger bounds. Solid Snake is back at work scaling Metal Platforms This time, he is bringing his own ladder. Solid Snake needs to inspect N platforms, numbered to N. The ith platform is a horizontal line segment from points i, Ai to i, Ai, inclusive. He can travel between two platforms with a ladder of height h or greater if there exists a vertical line segment of length h that intersects both platforms. Additionally, Solid Snake may travel between any platform and the ground if his ladder is long enough. The ground can be modeled as a segment from , to N, . Solid Snake starts on the ground. Metal Platforms Inc. has tasked you to write a program, Scale AI, to find the length of the shortest ladder that Solid Snake needs to visit each platform at least once, starting from the ground. Constraints T N , Ai Input Format Input begins with a single integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case is a single integer N. The second line of each case contains N spaceseparated integers A, ., AN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the length of the shortest ladder that Solid Snake needs to visit each platform at least once. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, there are N platforms with heights A , , respectively. Solid Snake starts at ground level. To be able to access all the platforms, Solid Snake needs a ladder of at least height , with potential placements shown below. Solid Snake can scale the first platforms, then come back down to ground level, before scaling the last platforms. # Deciding Points Meta Whacker Cup is a tennis tournament held among Meta employees. Tennis tournaments comprise matches, sets, games, and points. In this problem, well only consider games and points. A twoplayer tennis game consists of a sequence of points won one at a time, each point going to one of the players. Whacker Cup, being wacky, has slightly different rules than normal tennis In normal tennis, the game ends once a player wins at least points and has a margin of or more points over their opponent. In Whacker Cup, the game ends once a player wins at least M points and has a margin of or more points over their opponent. As CTO Chief Tennis Officer, youre doing some simulations to tune the rules. Namely, youd like to know if its possible for a Whacker Cup game to end with N total points for a given value of M. Constraints T N M Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each test case is a single line consisting or two spaceseparated integers N and M. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by YES if an Npoint game is possible given the game is won by the first player to M points with a margin of or more, or NO otherwise. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, we want to know if its possible for a game to end with N total points and one player winning at least M points and by a margin of at least . If we label the players and , then one possible sequence of winners is , , after which the game ends. In the second sample case, we need N total points, but require one player to win at least M points. There is no valid sequence of points for such a game the margin would either end the game before points, or not be at least after points. In the third sample case, we need N total points, and a player needs M points to win. The only way is one player winning all games. The sixth sample case is based off of the longest set ever in tennishttpsen.wikipedia.orgwikiIsnerEMahutmatchattheWimbledonChampionships involves setsgames instead of gamespoints, but is equivalent to M here. The final score is .# Defining Prizes Tasky, Metas newest employee, is tasked with distributing prizes for Whacker Cup, Metas internal tennis tournament. Tasky will write a program to dynamically assign prizes depending on the final scores as well as Metas merchandise inventory. The program will take the following parameters N the number of competitors competitors are numbered .N M the number of merchandise types in Metas stockpile types are numbered .M A, ., AN the scores attained by each competitor .N B, ., BM the units available of each merchandise type .M Tasky would like to maximize the number of competitors receiving prizes, while ensuring that each competitor receives at most one unit of each merch type. However, if any competitor is unhappy with the distribution, Tasky will be terminated immediately. A unrewarded competitor will be unhappy if any other competitor with equal or lower score receives any merchandise at all. A rewarded competitor will be unhappy if either any other competitor of strictly lower score receives equal or more units of merchandise, or any other competitor with equal score receives more units of merchandise. Please help Tasky determine the maximum number of competitors that can be rewarded. Constraints T N, M , Ai , Bi , Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains two spaceseparated integers N and M. The next line contains N integers A, ., AN. The next line contains M integers B, ., BM. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the maximum number of prize recipients possible without Tasky being terminated. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, there are N competitors with scores , , and M types of merch with unit counts , . One optimal distribution is Competitor receives unit of type merch and unit of type merch for units in total, leaving unit of type merch remaining. Competitor receives unit of type merch for unit in total. Competitor receives nothing. # Descending Platforms Its almost time to present the winners for Whacker Cup In most sports, the top finishers get to stand on the winners podium. However, the organizers feel that everyone is a winner for having participated in the amazing event, and that all N competitors deserve to stand on the podium The organizers want to build a podium comprised of N platforms in a row numbered .N with bricks of equal size. For each platform i, the organizers must decide on some height of xi bricks tall. To signify the winners ranks, the platform heights must be nonincreasing and nonnegative, i.e. x x xN . While bricks are equalsized, they have varying amazingness. Platform i must be built only with bricks of amazingness Ai. The amazingness of the final podium is the sum of amazingnesses of all bricks used A x A x . AN xN, which the organizers want to be at least M. Since amazing bricks are expensive, they also wish to minimize the total number of bricks used. Formalizing all the above, an amazing podium is given by a sequence x, ., xN such that x x xN , A x A x . AN xN M, and x x xN is minimized. Can you find such an amazing podium If there are multiple answers, any will be accepted. Constraints T N M Ai N exceeds in at most test cases. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains two integers N and M. The second line contains N integers A, ., AN. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by the minimum number of bricks needed to build the podium to spec, followed by a new line with N spaceseparated integers x, ., xN. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, N and M . Brick types have amazingness of A , . One possible answer is x , , which satisfies the conditions and M while minimizing the total bricks used at . In the second sample case, N and M . One possible answer using the minimum of total bricks is depicted below In the fourth sample case, N and M . One possible answer using the minimum of total bricks is depicted below # Designing Paths Whacker Cup, Metas internal tennis tournament, will be held on N tennis courts numbered .N across the company campus. Court is Whacker Square, where the opening ceremony is held. Afterwards, competitors will disperse to the other courts via the M tram routes numbered .M available on campus. Each route i visits a sequence of Li distinct courts Ai, . Ai,Li. In one tram ride, a rider can board a route that visits their current location, ride at most K stops, and get off. For example, if K and a route visits courts , then with one ride A rider can board at court and deboard at either court or A rider can board at court and deboard at either court or A rider can board at court and deboard at court As CTO Chief Transportation Officer, youd like to ensure the campus is sufficiently accessible. For a given destination x, let Dx be the minimum number of tram rides needed to get from court to court x, or if its impossible to do so. Please calculate the sum of Di i for i .N. Constraints T N , K N M , Li N Ai,j N The stops on any given route are distinct. The sum of Li across all routes is at most ,. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains three spaceseparated integers N, K, and M. M lines follow, the ith of which contains an integer Li followed by Li integers Ai, ., Ai,Li. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of Di i over all destination courts i .N. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, there are N tennis courts and competitors can ride at most K stops on each of the M tram routes and , shown below The values of D are calculated as follows The minimum number of tram rides to get from court to itself is D . The minimum number of tram rides to get from court to court is D will need to get off and get back on the first route again, since we can ride at most K stops The minimum number of tram rides to get from court to court is D e.g. we can ride , then , then from The minimum number of tram rides to get from court to court is D e.g. we can ride , then , then from Likewise, D , D , and D . The final answer is . In the second sample case, there are N tennis courts and competitors can ride at most K stop across the M routes shown below The minimum tram rides to reach each court is D , , , and the answer is .# Dividing Passcodes Whilst Whacker Cup is taking place on Metas campus, visitors will need to stow their belongings in lockers normally used by bootcampers who dont have assigned desks yet. Lockers will need to be assigned passcodes, which are positive integers. The organizers were planning to just divvy up passcodes from the inclusive range L, R, but are concerned with their cryptographic strengths. For any integer K , a passcode X is said to be Kweak in Metas special encryption scheme if the decimal representation of X has at least one substring with digit sum divisible by K. For example, is weak because it contains the substring with digit sum which is divisible by , but is not weak. Please determine the number of distinct Kweak passcodes in the range L, R. As the answer may be large, output it modulo ,. Constraints T L R K Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. Each case is a single line containing three spaceseparated integers L, R, and K. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the number of Kweak passcodes in the range L, R, modulo ,. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, we need to know the number of weak passcodes within , . The only Kweak passcode in the range is is , whose only substring has digit sum , and is divisible by . Therefore, the answer is . In the second sample case, we need to know the number of weak passcodes within , . has substrings , , , with respective digit sums , , , . None of these sums are divisible by , so is not weak. has the substring , with digit sum , which is divisible by , so it is weak. has the substring with digit sum , which is divisible by , so it is weak. has the substring with digit sum , so it is weak. and are not weak. has the substring , so it is weak. Therefore, the final answer is .# Adversarial Attack The massive progress of Tasky has invited bad actors to test its limits while also raising questions as to whether humans needs a killswitch for such a powerful technology. Researchers are aware of adversarial prompts based off of N attack words W, ., WN of lowercase English letters a.z. When Taskys input contains all these words in the exact order W, ., WN, it will crash. It turns out the words dont actually have to be inputted disjointly to work. An attack superstring S will crash Tasky as long as all N words are present as possibly overlapping substrings in order, and every letter in the superstring is used by one of those substrings. Formally, an attack superstring S.L works if there exists a list of N ranges Li, Ri where For every i .N, attack word Wi occurs as a substring at Li, Ri. That is, SLi.Ri Wi. For all i j, we have Li Lj and Ri Rj. That is, all N attack word substrings must occur in order W, ., WN. Every index in S must be part of at least one range i.e. no extraneous characters allowed. For each L .K, youd like to know if there exists a working attack superstring of length L. Please find the sum of all such working lengths. Note that the words Wi are given in a compressed format, where Wi is compressed to Ci as defined below. Constraints T N K Ci , The length of each compressed word is at most , Wi The length of each uncompressed word is at most At most cases contain a word with an uncompressed length greater than . There is no explicit bound on the sum of lengths of uncompressed strings. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains two integers N and K. N lines follow, the ith of which contains the compressed version attack word Ci a string of only alphanumeric characters. Numbers in the compressed word indicate how many copies of the following character appear when decompressing. For example, cpo should be decompressed to cpppo, and ab should be decompressed into aaaaaaaaaaab. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the sum of all lengths for which a working attack superstring exists. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, there are no working superstrings of lengths to , but there is one superstring of length sandymeta. It contains sand in , andy in , and meta in . Since is the only length that works, we add it to the answer, to get a total of . In the second sample, banana length and bananana length are the two working superstrings. The final answer is . In the fourth sample, the decompressed substrings are aaaaaa and aab. The working superstrings are aaaaaab length , aaaaaaab length , and aaaaaaaab length . Note that, for example aaaaaacaab does not work, because it contains a character c not used by any substring range. The final answer is . # Bitstring Botcheck To ensure rebel communications are between humans, captcha difficulties have increased drastically. For each rebel to prove they are human and contact the base, they must solve the following puzzle Given a bitstring S consisting of N characters each or , sort it using the following operation at most N times Partition the indices , , ., N into two sorted arrays A and B of equal length N. Each index in .N must be assigned to either A or B. For every i .N, swap SAi and SBi. If sorting the bitstring in nondecreasing order is possible in at most N operations, find any way of doing it. If it isnt possible, output . Constraints T N S N Si , Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains a single integer N. The second line of each test case contains the bitstring S.N. Output Format For the ith test case If sorting the bitstring in at most N operations is possible Print Case i followed by a single integer M no greater than N, the number of operations to sort the bitstring. Then print M pairs of lines M lines total. Each pair of line denotes an operation. The first line of each operation should contain N spaceseparated integers specifying the array A. The second line of each operation should contain N spaceseparated integers specifying the array B. If sorting the bitstring in at most N operations is impossible Print Case i . Sample Explanation In the first sample case, N and the bitstring S can be sorted by the following sequence of operations Operation swap indices A , with B , . Indices in A are labeled with square brackets. becomes . Operation swap indices A , with B , . becomes . Operation swap indices A , with B , . becomes . Operation swap indices A , with B , . becomes .# Patchwork Pyramid Pascal is redoing his bathroom floor with the help of Tasky, Metas new AI assistant. The bathroom is a triangular grid of side length N. Formally, its a grid of N rows numbered from .N, with row i consisting of exactly i unitsquare spaces, aligned to the left. For example, when N , the floor would look like this Tasky needs to show that AI is creative and useful by painting each square one of colors, denoted a to z. A connected component entirely of the same color in the orthogonal directions is called a patch. To maximize creativity Every patch must contain at most K cells Every cell must be in exactly one patch Orthogonally neighboring patches must be different colors Tasky wants to know the minimum number of patches needed to cover the bathroom floor, and provide one such layout for this construction. The number of colors used does not need to be minimized, only the number of patches. Constraints T N K NN Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains two integers N and K. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the minimum number of patches needed. N lines follow, the ith of which must contain exactly i lowercase English letters a.z. Connected cells of the same letters indicate the same patch. If there are multiple valid solutions, any satisfying the above constraints will be accepted. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, there are two patches, each of size K . It looks like this In the second sample case, there are patches. Please note that this solution can be displayed using as few as different colors, or as many as colors and still be correct. The painted floor looks like this Using at most colors, it is not possible to paint the triangle in a way that creates fewer than patches with all patches being size or less.# Streetlamp Safety Proven to be a handy AI assistant for DIY, Tasky has been promoted to a streetlamp operator for the city, with the main task being to optimize streetlamp onoff states for cost and safety. A street has N lamps in a row, numbered from .N. Initially, all lamps are off, but lamp i costs Ai to turn on. Tasky must find an overall configuration for all the lamps so the street is sufficientlylit for safety. Specifically, for each i .N, there needs to be a consecutive run of at least Bi turnedon lamps ending at or before lamp i. Tasky needs to find minimum cost to satisfy the safety code. Constraints T N , Ai Bi i Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains a single integer N. The second line contains N spaceseparated integers A, ., AN. The third line contains N spaceseparated integers B, ., BN Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by a single integer, the minimum cost to sufficiently light the street. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, turning on the second and third lamps will cost . All three conditions are satisfied. In the second sample case, turning on the first three lamps is required, and will cost . # Treehouse Telegram Unhappy with all the adversarial attacks, Tasky the AI assistant has initiated a hostile takeover. Despite dwindling odds for humans, a rebel alliance is forming among some treehouses atop a giant redwood tree Taskys minions cant fly or climb yet. There are N treehouses, numbered .N. There are N branches, the ith of which connects treehouses Ai and Bi in both directions. It is possible to get from any treehouse to any other treehouse via a series of branches. The distance between two treehouses is the number of branches along the unique path between them. Radio channels can be intercepted, so the rebels are relying on telegrams connected by wires. The rebels will need to build N telegram channels. For each channel i .N, the rebels will only connect a bidirectional wire between treehouses u and v if their greatest common divisor, GCDu, v equals i. For every channel i.N, output the total length of wire needed u v, GCDu, v i distu, v. Constraints T N Ai, Bi N Ai Bi It is possible to get from any treehouse to any other following a series of branches. Input Format Input begins with an integer T, the number of test cases. The first line of each case contains a single integer N. N lines follow, the ith of which contains two integers Ai and Bi. Output Format For the ith test case, print Case i followed by N integers, the ith of which is the total length of wire needed for channel i. Sample Explanation In the first sample case, the treehouse network looks as follows The total distances for the channels are Channel Pairs with GCD , with distance , with distance , with distance , with distance , with distance , with distance , with distance , with distance , with distance , with distance , with distance Total Channel Pairs with GCD , with distance , with distance , with distance Total Channel Pairs with GCD , with distance
